angleterre.md, before:

# Das Vereinigte Königreich

- Z is pronounced *Zed* to reflect its origin, the Greek alphabet [*zeta*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeta)... which the Brits pronounce *ZEEta*.
- Scotland is a country, just not a sovereign one.
- 事頭婆 means "the woman in charge". It originally referred to the Queen.
- [Pound cakes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pound_cake), cakes made with one pound of each of (flour, butter, eggs, sugar), date back to the 1700s. [Sara Lee sells pound cakes](https://saraleedesserts.com/products/butter-pound-cake/) in... one-pound (454g) containers. I may also wager that, at one point, these pound cakes must have been sold for exactly one pound (£).
- [Gillingham, Dorset](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gillingham,_Dorset) is pronounced with a hard G. [Gillingham, Kent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gillingham,_Kent) is pronounced with a soft G. The two towns are roughly 200km apart.
- [The Queen speaks French](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uxQpdHz7t2o)... with a thick British accent, but it's unmistakably French. Can't say the same for [this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Spcvk3h9z4).
- [Tommy Seumour](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Seymour,_1st_Baron_Seymour_of_Sudeley) is rumoured to have fucked not one, but *two* queens (Catherine Parr and Elizabeth I), despite never being a king.
- A slut is also called a "village bicycle", "town bike", or just "bike" (everyone rides it).
- A [subsidiary title](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subsidiary_title) is a title held by someone who obviously has more important titles. You can call the queen the president of the [Bristol Yu-gi-oh club](https://www.facebook.com/groups/188069861246792/) (Note: I made this one up), but she is obviously the head of the commonwealth, among other things, so you wouldn't call her the president of the Bristol Yu-gi-oh club unless she wanted you to. [Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camilla,_Duchess_of_Cornwall), while officially the Princess of Wales, prefers to be called Duchess of Cornwall because [a more famous Princess of Wales](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana,_Princess_of_Wales) died a while ago.
- Hobnobs are digestive biscuits.
- When the royalty fill in forms for applications and whatnot, they [really don't put in a last name](https://twitter.com/CBCAlerts/status/991288343907454976/photo/1).
- The longest country name in the world is "the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland".
- The use of [Defender of the Faith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defender_of_the_Faith) in a king/queen's title predates Henry VIII, who famously didn't defend the faith.
- Henry VIII not only created a whole new religion to allow him to divorce a woman and marry a new one---[he executed his new wife, too](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3VHd2D-SLM)!
- England lost its only European mainland territory, [Pale of Calais](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pale_of_Calais), when [Mary I was busy burning her own people for protestant heresy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siege_of_Calais_%281558%29) (1558).
- [The fall of the British Empire can be traced back directly to World War II](https://www.theweek.co.uk/history/93820/british-empire-how-big-was-it-and-why-did-it-collapse), says BBC. The war bankrupted the UK and comprised its economic independence. When Hong Kong was transferred (back) to China in 1997, Prince Charles called it the [end of the Empire](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2015/09/08/map-the-rise-and-fall-of-the-british-empire/).
- [A doctor was fired for refusing to call a hypothetical six-foot man "madam"](https://nationalpost.com/news/world/u-k-doctor-fired-after-refusing-to-refer-to-theoretical-six-foot-tall-bearded-man-as-madam-sues-government): _"I appreciate that in the present political climate, some people, including some of those who believe they are transgender, may find my beliefs to be offensive. However, in a free society, this is not a good enough reason to censor my beliefs and coerce me to act contrary to my conscience."_
- Brits call people who go on a vacation "holidaymakers", Holidaygoers would be too logical.
- In the UK, white walking canes are for blind people, and white/red striped canes are for blind _and_ deaf people. This convention does not exist elsewhere. (Also: deaf people don't need canes.)
- A [Continental breakfast](http://www.wisegeek.org/what-is-a-continental-breakfast.htm#didyouknowout) is called that to distinguish from English breakfast, which is also part of the continent but you know. Continental breakfasts are lighter, have less _stuff_, and are easier for hotels to prepare.
- Raichu7 claims that suicide is illegal in England, only because police can only enter private property without a warrant if they have reason to believe a crime is being committed.
- Baked beans are stewed. Apparently [they go on toast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Full_breakfast#England).
- [_Annus Horribilis_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annus_horribilis): a horrible year. The queen said it once when her daughter died.
- The queen still sends out "how's it going commonwealth" Christmas greetings every year, [now in full HD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjTBcqpl2kc). In 2017, she talked about how she was doing the same thing six decades ago. "I didn't know that anyone had invented the term _platinum_ for a 70th wedding anniversary when I was born. You won't expect it to be around that long."
- [London Bridge in 1682 had loads of buildings on it.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Bridge) The bridge was demolished more often than it was collapsed.
- Londoners eat what they call [jellied eels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jellied_eels), as eels are cheap, nutritious, and all over River Thames.
- London airports: London City (east) Heathrow (west), Gatwick (south), Stansted (northeast), Luton (northwest). You rarely get London City airport flights because its runway(s) are too narrow for wide-body planes.
- Each "capsule" of the London Eye looks like a chicken testis.
- The UK charges [5 levels of VAT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value-added_tax_in_the_United_Kingdom), from 20% (your usual amount) to [two kinds of 0%](http://www.taxpolicycenter.org/briefing-book/what-difference-between-zero-rating-and-exempting-good-vat), "zero-rated" and "exempt", having no difference for the consumer.
- The Big Ben is also leaning over.
- The british flag is upside down when [the red (Scottish) line does not touch the pole at the top half of the flag](https://www.google.ca/search?q=british+flag+upside+down)
- The back of the [1p coin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coins_of_the_pound_sterling) says penny, not pence (because pence is the plural of penny). When you have two of those pennies, you call it _tuppens_, and when you have three of them, [_thruppens_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threepence_%28British_coin%29).
- Fun fact about Queen Victoria: her first name is "Alexandrina" Victoria; she reigned until the 1900s. [One of her sons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_VII) ruled after that for just 9 years, then [his son George V](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_V) was said to like collecting stamps (and be on stamps), and hate sitting for portraits. [One of his sons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_VI) George VI married a [charming lady](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_Elizabeth_The_Queen_Mother), who together made [the woman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_II) to [rule us forever](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_state_leaders_by_date_of_assumption_of_office). God save the Queen.
- King George V was the king who renamed the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha to Windsor.
- [Lisa Windsor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_II) has been stuck in her dead end job since 1952.
- UK is in [no-deal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZ0xISi40E) Brexit position because it basically wants complete autonomy in its jurisdiction (no free movement of people, goods, financial contribution to the union, and trade policies), which is not a thing even for the most basic EU partners, like Turkey.
- There is a prison room in the Big Ben.
- The inside of [Regency Cafe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regency_Caf%C3%A9) is full of pictures of itself in films and things.
- Kings Cross station has only platforms 9a and 9b. Platform 9.75 is a shop outside the fare paid zone.
- The [Isle of Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Snaefell_Mountain_Course_fatalities) racecourse is the most fatal racecourse _in the wurld_, with multiple deaths every year except 2012.
- [MI5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MI5) defends the state from spying. [MI6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_Intelligence_Service) spies on other countries. [James](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Bond) is in MI6.
- A [scotch egg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotch_egg) is a (no shell duh) egg wrapped in sausage meat and deep-fried breading.
- Once Markle [(suddenly)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fC8SRkGlHzk) becomes a royal member, she can no longer vote. And act. And show her bare legs.
- Non-royal descendants of the Queen and her husband Philip can use the last name Mountbatten-Windsor.
- [The Queen has two birthdays](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/0/why-does-the-queen-have-two-birthdays/) The ruling person always has two birthdays: [one on the real day, and one in Spring, in the form of a military parade, known as Trooping the Colour.](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/0/why-does-the-queen-have-two-birthdays/) King George II started that tradition because he was born in cold weather.
- [Gibraltar](https://www.google.ca/maps/place/Gibraltar/@36.1354446,-5.3472065,14z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0xd0cbf762714be35:0x384e25263600870f!8m2!3d36.140751!4d-5.353585), while clearly part of Spain, is part of Britain.
- The two-colour pound coin came out in 2016, so it is not part of [the shield thing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coins_of_the_pound_sterling#Royal_Shield_reverse).
- Brit Bro [Lawrence Oates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Oates), when his feet had become severely frostbitten at the South Pole, he said "I am just going outside and may be some time", left the tent, and sacrificed himself for others' chances of survival.
- [The earth wire in a UK plug is meant to have more slack than the live and neutral wires](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEfP1OKKz_Q), so that when you yank the plug out, the earth wire is more likely to be detacted last. The UK plug contains a fuse because, get this, their houses are built on [ring circuits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_circuit), since [copper was expensive after WW2](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1782791), and ring circuits are cheaper to wire up than one wire for every socket, which is what you'll find in normal houses today. In other words, the Brits have deferred electrical safety to the appliance rather than the house.

Commit message:

Boy have I other things in life to take care of first

angleterre.md, after:

# Das Vereinigte Königreich

- Boris Johnson's full name is Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson. Instead of going by Alex, he chose to be Boris (a Russian name).
- The Queen has a woman called [Angela Kelly](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angela_Kelly) manage [her wardrobe](https://www.townandcountrymag.com/style/fashion-trends/a18370727/angela-kelly-queen-elizabeth-senior-dresser/). They happen to have the same shoe size, so she breaks in the Queen's shoes for her.
- Z is pronounced *Zed* to reflect its origin, the Greek alphabet [*zeta*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeta)... which the Brits pronounce *ZEEta*.
- Scotland is a country, just not a sovereign one.
- 事頭婆 means "the woman in charge". It originally referred to the Queen.
- [Pound cakes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pound_cake), cakes made with one pound of each of (flour, butter, eggs, sugar), date back to the 1700s. [Sara Lee sells pound cakes](https://saraleedesserts.com/products/butter-pound-cake/) in... one-pound (454g) containers. I may also wager that, at one point, these pound cakes must have been sold for exactly one pound (£).
- [Gillingham, Dorset](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gillingham,_Dorset) is pronounced with a hard G. [Gillingham, Kent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gillingham,_Kent) is pronounced with a soft G. The two towns are roughly 200km apart.
- [The Queen speaks French](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uxQpdHz7t2o)... with a thick British accent, but it's unmistakably French. Can't say the same for [this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Spcvk3h9z4).
- [Tommy Seumour](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Seymour,_1st_Baron_Seymour_of_Sudeley) is rumoured to have fucked not one, but *two* queens (Catherine Parr and Elizabeth I), despite never being a king.
- A slut is also called a "village bicycle", "town bike", or just "bike" (everyone rides it).
- A [subsidiary title](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subsidiary_title) is a title held by someone who obviously has more important titles. You can call the queen the president of the [Bristol Yu-gi-oh club](https://www.facebook.com/groups/188069861246792/) (Note: I made this one up), but she is obviously the head of the commonwealth, among other things, so you wouldn't call her the president of the Bristol Yu-gi-oh club unless she wanted you to. [Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camilla,_Duchess_of_Cornwall), while officially the Princess of Wales, prefers to be called Duchess of Cornwall because [a more famous Princess of Wales](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana,_Princess_of_Wales) died a while ago.
- Hobnobs are digestive biscuits.
- When the royalty fill in forms for applications and whatnot, they [really don't put in a last name](https://twitter.com/CBCAlerts/status/991288343907454976/photo/1).
- The longest country name in the world is "the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland".
- The use of [Defender of the Faith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defender_of_the_Faith) in a king/queen's title predates Henry VIII, who famously didn't defend the faith.
- Henry VIII not only created a whole new religion to allow him to divorce a woman and marry a new one---[he executed his new wife, too](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B3VHd2D-SLM)!
- England lost its only European mainland territory, [Pale of Calais](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pale_of_Calais), when [Mary I was busy burning her own people for protestant heresy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siege_of_Calais_%281558%29) (1558).
- [The fall of the British Empire can be traced back directly to World War II](https://www.theweek.co.uk/history/93820/british-empire-how-big-was-it-and-why-did-it-collapse), says BBC. The war bankrupted the UK and comprised its economic independence. When Hong Kong was transferred (back) to China in 1997, Prince Charles called it the [end of the Empire](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2015/09/08/map-the-rise-and-fall-of-the-british-empire/).
- [A doctor was fired for refusing to call a hypothetical six-foot man "madam"](https://nationalpost.com/news/world/u-k-doctor-fired-after-refusing-to-refer-to-theoretical-six-foot-tall-bearded-man-as-madam-sues-government): _"I appreciate that in the present political climate, some people, including some of those who believe they are transgender, may find my beliefs to be offensive. However, in a free society, this is not a good enough reason to censor my beliefs and coerce me to act contrary to my conscience."_
- Brits call people who go on a vacation "holidaymakers", Holidaygoers would be too logical.
- In the UK, white walking canes are for blind people, and white/red striped canes are for blind _and_ deaf people. This convention does not exist elsewhere. (Also: deaf people don't need canes.)
- A [Continental breakfast](http://www.wisegeek.org/what-is-a-continental-breakfast.htm#didyouknowout) is called that to distinguish from English breakfast, which is also part of the continent but you know. Continental breakfasts are lighter, have less _stuff_, and are easier for hotels to prepare.
- Raichu7 claims that suicide is illegal in England, only because police can only enter private property without a warrant if they have reason to believe a crime is being committed.
- Baked beans are stewed. Apparently [they go on toast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Full_breakfast#England).
- [_Annus Horribilis_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annus_horribilis): a horrible year. The queen said it once when her daughter died.
- The queen still sends out "how's it going commonwealth" Christmas greetings every year, [now in full HD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjTBcqpl2kc). In 2017, she talked about how she was doing the same thing six decades ago. "I didn't know that anyone had invented the term _platinum_ for a 70th wedding anniversary when I was born. You won't expect it to be around that long."
- [London Bridge in 1682 had loads of buildings on it.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Bridge) The bridge was demolished more often than it was collapsed.
- Londoners eat what they call [jellied eels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jellied_eels), as eels are cheap, nutritious, and all over River Thames.
- London airports: London City (east) Heathrow (west), Gatwick (south), Stansted (northeast), Luton (northwest). You rarely get London City airport flights because its runway(s) are too narrow for wide-body planes.
- Each "capsule" of the London Eye looks like a chicken testis.
- The UK charges [5 levels of VAT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value-added_tax_in_the_United_Kingdom), from 20% (your usual amount) to [two kinds of 0%](http://www.taxpolicycenter.org/briefing-book/what-difference-between-zero-rating-and-exempting-good-vat), "zero-rated" and "exempt", having no difference for the consumer.
- The Big Ben is also leaning over.
- The british flag is upside down when [the red (Scottish) line does not touch the pole at the top half of the flag](https://www.google.ca/search?q=british+flag+upside+down)
- The back of the [1p coin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coins_of_the_pound_sterling) says penny, not pence (because pence is the plural of penny). When you have two of those pennies, you call it _tuppens_, and when you have three of them, [_thruppens_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Threepence_%28British_coin%29).
- Fun fact about Queen Victoria: her first name is "Alexandrina" Victoria; she reigned until the 1900s. [One of her sons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_VII) ruled after that for just 9 years, then [his son George V](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_V) was said to like collecting stamps (and be on stamps), and hate sitting for portraits. [One of his sons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_VI) George VI married a [charming lady](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_Elizabeth_The_Queen_Mother), who together made [the woman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_II) to [rule us forever](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_current_state_leaders_by_date_of_assumption_of_office). God save the Queen.
- King George V was the king who renamed the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha to Windsor.
- [Lisa Windsor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_II) has been stuck in her dead end job since 1952.
- UK is in [no-deal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agZ0xISi40E) Brexit position because it basically wants complete autonomy in its jurisdiction (no free movement of people, goods, financial contribution to the union, and trade policies), which is not a thing even for the most basic EU partners, like Turkey.
- There is a prison room in the Big Ben.
- The inside of [Regency Cafe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regency_Caf%C3%A9) is full of pictures of itself in films and things.
- Kings Cross station has only platforms 9a and 9b. Platform 9.75 is a shop outside the fare paid zone.
- The [Isle of Man](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Snaefell_Mountain_Course_fatalities) racecourse is the most fatal racecourse _in the wurld_, with multiple deaths every year except 2012.
- [MI5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MI5) defends the state from spying. [MI6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_Intelligence_Service) spies on other countries. [James](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Bond) is in MI6.
- A [scotch egg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotch_egg) is a (no shell duh) egg wrapped in sausage meat and deep-fried breading.
- Once Markle [(suddenly)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fC8SRkGlHzk) becomes a royal member, she can no longer vote. And act. And show her bare legs.
- Non-royal descendants of the Queen and her husband Philip can use the last name Mountbatten-Windsor.
- [The Queen has two birthdays](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/0/why-does-the-queen-have-two-birthdays/) The ruling person always has two birthdays: [one on the real day, and one in Spring, in the form of a military parade, known as Trooping the Colour.](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/0/why-does-the-queen-have-two-birthdays/) King George II started that tradition because he was born in cold weather.
- [Gibraltar](https://www.google.ca/maps/place/Gibraltar/@36.1354446,-5.3472065,14z/data=!4m5!3m4!1s0xd0cbf762714be35:0x384e25263600870f!8m2!3d36.140751!4d-5.353585), while clearly part of Spain, is part of Britain.
- The two-colour pound coin came out in 2016, so it is not part of [the shield thing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coins_of_the_pound_sterling#Royal_Shield_reverse).
- Brit Bro [Lawrence Oates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Oates), when his feet had become severely frostbitten at the South Pole, he said "I am just going outside and may be some time", left the tent, and sacrificed himself for others' chances of survival.
- [The earth wire in a UK plug is meant to have more slack than the live and neutral wires](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEfP1OKKz_Q), so that when you yank the plug out, the earth wire is more likely to be detacted last. The UK plug contains a fuse because, get this, their houses are built on [ring circuits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_circuit), since [copper was expensive after WW2](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1782791), and ring circuits are cheaper to wire up than one wire for every socket, which is what you'll find in normal houses today. In other words, the Brits have deferred electrical safety to the appliance rather than the house.
