apple.md, before:

1. [Apple's vision is to eliminate technology from the user](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zO0b-l-u7Yk), not to make the best technology for the user. If it means to remove ports (because you need ports only if you think the tech exists), then it *will* remove ports. If making things lighter makes the tech less obvious, then it *will* make products lighter. Apple also believes that customers don't know what they want. Customers asking for a faster horse actually want a car. No customer will ask for the next big thing.
1. The original iPhone had no screws holding the body together. The [pentalobe atrocity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentalobe_security_screw) was committed first in 2009, on a macbook.
1. [Apple doesn't tweet.](https://www.theverge.com/2016/9/3/12781498/apple-twitter-account-paid-tweets) Even if they tweet, they delete the tweets afterwards.
1. Apple originally wanted to use a full apple. But in small print it looked like a cherry. So they added the bite.
1. While you [can](https://github.com/nordnet/cordova-hot-code-push/wiki/App-Store-FAQ) update your hybrid iOS app remotely and bypassing the app store review process, you cannot ask the user if they want to update.
1. The iPhone 8's resolution is around 720p.
1. iOS apps are [`.ipa`](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.ipa) compressed (payload), and `.app` uncompressed.
1. `xcode-select --print-path` gives you where Xcode is installed.
1. `xcodebuild -list -project ???.xcodeproj` tells you what the Xcode project is configured to build, and information like targets and schemes.
1. Adding `build` after that command, i.e. `xcodebuild -project ???.xcodeproj build`, builds the `.app`.
1. "Archive" means "Compile", and "Compile" means something else, and "Build" means neither of the three.
1. iOS app submission requires one screenshot for each screen size your app claims to support.
1. [You cannot install IPAs on the simulator](https://stackoverflow.com/a/517541/1558430) (if it is built for a different CPU architecture).
1. [Why would you pay for a phone made by Google? "You paid for a phone so Google can sell you to advertisers."](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ianmorris/2017/02/10/how-google-blew-it-with-the-pixel-and-pixel-xl/#3a1ca730f3f6) This is not the case for Apple.
1. Force touch is more basic; [3D touch](https://www.wired.com/2015/09/what-is-the-difference-between-apple-iphone-3d-touch-and-force-touch/) is more granular. [It](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Force_Touch#3D_Touch) would appear that iPhones have 3D touch, and all other "trackpad devices" have force touch.
1. According to EverythingApplePro, [Apple releases things on Tuesdays and starts preorders on Fridays](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=norgCJzrNb4).
1. The Apple A10X chip is the first TSMC 10nm chip to be used by a consumer device.
1. "Mercury" is the Firefox for iOS.
1. There is normally no way to [transfer a file using Bluetooth](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18884705/transfer-data-between-ios-and-android-via-bluetooth) on iOS. Get a Mac.
1. Chrome for iOS makes requests to `http://localhost:0` for [URL verification][newrelic].
1. "A [provisioning profile](https://pewpewthespells.com/blog/migrating_code_signing.html#introduction-to-code-signing) is a plist file that is cryptographically signed by Apple's CA to ensure it cannot be modified after being created. This allows Apple to have complete control over the deployment mechanism that is used on iOS."
1. [WKWebView](http://blog.initlabs.com/post/100113463211/wkwebview-vs-uiwebview) uses less CPU for WebGL-related tasks on iOS.
1. The iPhone 6s is 0.3mm thicker than the iPhone 6 (for the force touch rubbish). Their casings are not interchangeable.
1. Depending on your device, Tim decided it would be nice if you get totally different UI on it, depending on which one it is. Swiping up on the iPhone gets you the control center, and on the iPad, it is a dock instead.
1. "iPhone X is top notch lol"
1. The new Siri knows its birthday (around 2011) but won't answer how old it is. Therefore, Siri is a woman.
1. The iOS source code contained "vim turds" [at some point](https://github.com/apple/darwin-xnu/commit/0a798f6738bc1db01281fc08ae024145e84df927#diff-a084b794bc0759e7a6b77810e01874f2L6).
1. "2007: home button always takes you home, no matter where you are (mentioned in keynote). 2017: home button takes you home most of the time if you press it once. Press it twice and you get an app switcher. Press it three times for accessibility. If your phone is locked, press it once to wake, twice to bring up passcode. If you're in a notification, press once to get rid of notification, then again to go home. Rest finger to unlock without opening home. Double rest to bring reachability. Press and hold for Siri. Press and hold longer for Siri with stop on release." - /u/atalkingfish

Commit message:

no one ever said "I can't make any legs"

apple.md, after:

1. The iPad doesn't have a calculator because [Steve Jobs said no, pull it we can't ship that (stretched-out calculator UI)](https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/4dlqgv/why_does_ipad_not_have_a_native_calculator/d1s5rr9/).
1. [Apple's vision is to eliminate technology from the user](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zO0b-l-u7Yk), not to make the best technology for the user. If it means to remove ports (because you need ports only if you think the tech exists), then it *will* remove ports. If making things lighter makes the tech less obvious, then it *will* make products lighter. Apple also believes that customers don't know what they want. Customers asking for a faster horse actually want a car. No customer will ask for the next big thing.
1. The original iPhone had no screws holding the body together. The [pentalobe atrocity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentalobe_security_screw) was committed first in 2009, on a macbook.
1. [Apple doesn't tweet.](https://www.theverge.com/2016/9/3/12781498/apple-twitter-account-paid-tweets) Even if they tweet, they delete the tweets afterwards.
1. Apple originally wanted to use a full apple. But in small print it looked like a cherry. So they added the bite.
1. While you [can](https://github.com/nordnet/cordova-hot-code-push/wiki/App-Store-FAQ) update your hybrid iOS app remotely and bypassing the app store review process, you cannot ask the user if they want to update.
1. The iPhone 8's resolution is around 720p.
1. iOS apps are [`.ipa`](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.ipa) compressed (payload), and `.app` uncompressed.
1. `xcode-select --print-path` gives you where Xcode is installed.
1. `xcodebuild -list -project ???.xcodeproj` tells you what the Xcode project is configured to build, and information like targets and schemes.
1. Adding `build` after that command, i.e. `xcodebuild -project ???.xcodeproj build`, builds the `.app`.
1. "Archive" means "Compile", and "Compile" means something else, and "Build" means neither of the three.
1. iOS app submission requires one screenshot for each screen size your app claims to support.
1. [You cannot install IPAs on the simulator](https://stackoverflow.com/a/517541/1558430) (if it is built for a different CPU architecture).
1. [Why would you pay for a phone made by Google? "You paid for a phone so Google can sell you to advertisers."](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ianmorris/2017/02/10/how-google-blew-it-with-the-pixel-and-pixel-xl/#3a1ca730f3f6) This is not the case for Apple.
1. Force touch is more basic; [3D touch](https://www.wired.com/2015/09/what-is-the-difference-between-apple-iphone-3d-touch-and-force-touch/) is more granular. [It](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Force_Touch#3D_Touch) would appear that iPhones have 3D touch, and all other "trackpad devices" have force touch.
1. According to EverythingApplePro, [Apple releases things on Tuesdays and starts preorders on Fridays](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=norgCJzrNb4).
1. The Apple A10X chip is the first TSMC 10nm chip to be used by a consumer device.
1. "Mercury" is the Firefox for iOS.
1. There is normally no way to [transfer a file using Bluetooth](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18884705/transfer-data-between-ios-and-android-via-bluetooth) on iOS. Get a Mac.
1. Chrome for iOS makes requests to `http://localhost:0` for [URL verification][newrelic].
1. "A [provisioning profile](https://pewpewthespells.com/blog/migrating_code_signing.html#introduction-to-code-signing) is a plist file that is cryptographically signed by Apple's CA to ensure it cannot be modified after being created. This allows Apple to have complete control over the deployment mechanism that is used on iOS."
1. [WKWebView](http://blog.initlabs.com/post/100113463211/wkwebview-vs-uiwebview) uses less CPU for WebGL-related tasks on iOS.
1. The iPhone 6s is 0.3mm thicker than the iPhone 6 (for the force touch rubbish). Their casings are not interchangeable.
1. Depending on your device, Tim decided it would be nice if you get totally different UI on it, depending on which one it is. Swiping up on the iPhone gets you the control center, and on the iPad, it is a dock instead.
1. "iPhone X is top notch lol"
1. The new Siri knows its birthday (around 2011) but won't answer how old it is. Therefore, Siri is a woman.
1. The iOS source code contained "vim turds" [at some point](https://github.com/apple/darwin-xnu/commit/0a798f6738bc1db01281fc08ae024145e84df927#diff-a084b794bc0759e7a6b77810e01874f2L6).
1. "2007: home button always takes you home, no matter where you are (mentioned in keynote). 2017: home button takes you home most of the time if you press it once. Press it twice and you get an app switcher. Press it three times for accessibility. If your phone is locked, press it once to wake, twice to bring up passcode. If you're in a notification, press once to get rid of notification, then again to go home. Rest finger to unlock without opening home. Double rest to bring reachability. Press and hold for Siri. Press and hold longer for Siri with stop on release." - /u/atalkingfish
