business.md, before:

![Pls deliver](https://i.redd.it/iznqp1y5vs4z.jpg)

- [Responsibilities of a CEO (among other things)](http://blog.staply.co/startup-legal-do-it-by-yourself)
- Acquisition is one of the things most CEOs delay until it is too late.
- Your options (if any) is worth nothing until exercised, making them tax-free.
- Your options cannot be sold back to the company. That is, unless someone else wants to buy your options, they are also worth nothing.
- Your options are immediately vested ('yours', or eqv.) at no cost if the company gets acquired.
- [The four stages of company development](http://takeaswig.com/the-end-of-the-facebook-era): Emergence (when it started), Coalescence (when it becomes large enough that people can't ignore it), Bureaucratization (when it becomes a formal giant), and Decline (when it stops being useful)
- **Speculating**: buying a company's stocks when the company isn't making a profit.
- Look at a company's political climate in addition to what the company's competition is doing.
- Related: [Professional style made easy](http://imgur.com/gallery/uuLhR)
- Do remember that [technical debt](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=10925141) _is_ debt; the time you borrow to make a feature must be paid back _soon_, and not _eventually_.
- The less money a startup has left, [the less likely it will receive more](http://paulgraham.com/pinch.html).
- Know what you are saving for. You can be saving for a house. You can be saving for a car. You can be saving for retirement. [Know your net worth, identify your goal, and work backwards.](https://www.businessinsider.com/first-step-early-retirement-planning-take-inventory)


## [Management](https://medium.com/@gerstenzang/21-management-things-i-learned-at-imgur-7abb72bdf8bf)

- Don't attempt to manage unmotivated people.
- Give feedback frequently and directly.
- Fire quickly.
- Listen when people explain the reasoning behind their decisions.
- Define success clearly, so people can meet it.
- "Sometimes people talk shit. Sometimes people have bad days. Don't take either personally."

## [How not to fail](http://themacro.com/articles/2016/06/how-not-to-fail/)

- Make something people want. (be open to changing direction)
- Stay focused. (including networking)
- Measure your growth. (pick 'revenue' as a metric and focus on that)
- Know if you’re default alive. (default alive is operational breakeven)
- Keep expenses low. (don't hire too many people)
- Fundraising gets harder. (VCs don't fund failures)

Commit message:

I just don't want another life ruined

business.md, after:

![Pls deliver](https://i.redd.it/iznqp1y5vs4z.jpg)

- [Responsibilities of a CEO (among other things)](http://blog.staply.co/startup-legal-do-it-by-yourself)
- Acquisition is one of the things most CEOs delay until it is too late.
- Your options (if any) is worth nothing until exercised, making them tax-free.
- Your options cannot be sold back to the company. That is, unless someone else wants to buy your options, they are also worth nothing.
- Your options are immediately vested ('yours', or eqv.) at no cost if the company gets acquired.
- [The four stages of company development](http://takeaswig.com/the-end-of-the-facebook-era): Emergence (when it started), Coalescence (when it becomes large enough that people can't ignore it), Bureaucratization (when it becomes a formal giant), and Decline (when it stops being useful)
- **Speculating**: buying a company's stocks when the company isn't making a profit.
- Look at a company's political climate in addition to what the company's competition is doing.
- Related: [Professional style made easy](http://imgur.com/gallery/uuLhR)
- Do remember that [technical debt](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=10925141) _is_ debt; the time you borrow to make a feature must be paid back _soon_, and not _eventually_.
- The less money a startup has left, [the less likely it will receive more](http://paulgraham.com/pinch.html).
- Know what you are saving for. You can be saving for a house. You can be saving for a car. You can be saving for retirement. [Know your net worth, identify your goal, and work backwards.](https://www.businessinsider.com/first-step-early-retirement-planning-take-inventory)

## [Management](https://medium.com/@gerstenzang/21-management-things-i-learned-at-imgur-7abb72bdf8bf)

- Don't attempt to manage unmotivated people.
- Give feedback frequently and directly.
- Fire quickly.
- Listen when people explain the reasoning behind their decisions.
- Define success clearly, so people can meet it.
- "Sometimes people talk shit. Sometimes people have bad days. Don't take either personally."
- Your coworkers may want to discuss salary. [There are pros and cons](https://www.monster.ca/career-advice/article/Pros-And-Cons-Of-Discussing-Salaries-At-Work) to discussing salary. Most importantly, discussing salaries is to _your personal advantage_, but may be a disadvantage to team productivity.

## [How not to fail](http://themacro.com/articles/2016/06/how-not-to-fail/)

- Make something people want. (be open to changing direction)
- Stay focused. (including networking)
- Measure your growth. (pick 'revenue' as a metric and focus on that)
- Know if you’re default alive. (default alive is operational breakeven)
- Keep expenses low. (don't hire too many people)
- Fundraising gets harder. (VCs don't fund failures)
