chemistry.md, before:

1. NyQuil [pre-mixes acetaminophen in ethanol](https://www.vicks.ca/en-ca/shop-products/nyquil/nyquil-cold-and-flu-nighttime-relief-liquid).
1. If you [do all sorts of things to wood (sodium hydroxide... sodium sulphite... crush... hot press...) to the point where it doesn't even qualify as wood anymore, it is stronger than wood](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-01600-6), says the University of Maryland.
1. (Probably all) electron microscopes have [moledular pumps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turbomolecular_pump) that create a vacuum.
1. [Konjac](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Konjac) 蒟蒻 geoi2 joek6 must be neutralised with calcium hydroxide and cooked before it can be eaten. [Glucomannan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glucomannan) is usually what's eaten.
1. The amphiphilic detergent in [Tide pods](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumption_of_Tide_Pods) will cause any cells in contact to explode. Enough cells undergoing necrosis will kill you.
1. Cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor drugs are actually trying to limit the production of [thromboxanes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thromboxane) (COX-1) and [prostaglandins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostaglandin) (COX-1, COX-2). Prostaglandins protect the stomach lining, so limiting its production has a side effect of gastrointestinal issues.
1. [Polyester hold onto things much stronger than cotton.](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2014/09/05/346055067/stinky-t-shirt-bacteria-love-polyester-in-a-special-way) This includes colour (pro) and body odour (con). [*Micrococcus*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micrococcus) bacteria like polyester more, and are transmitted by washing machines.
1. Octane rating is standardised from 0, that of [n-heptane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heptane), to 100, that of [2,2,4-trimethylpentane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2,2,4-Trimethylpentane).
1. The duct tape colour is a powdered aluminium pigment.
1. Antioxidants are reducing agents. They just repair oxidation. They do not directly counter free radicals.
1. "Himalania" produces [non-GMO salt](https://www.mnn.com/food/healthy-eating/blogs/facepalm-of-the-week-non-gmo-salt).
1. Maniacs out there actually [put cleaning bleach in their baths](https://www.dermnetnz.org/topics/bleach-baths-in-patients-with-skin-infections/) to simulate some kind of "swimming pool water" that treats skin infections.
1. You can [melt cyanoacrylate superglue with acetone](https://m.wikihow.com/Get-Super-Glue-Off-Skin). "Do not use a cotton swab, as this can react very violently with cyanoacrylate"
1. [Bathyscaphe Trieste](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bathyscaphe_Trieste), the mariana trench sub, uses gasoline for buoyancy because it is less dense than water, and incompressible even at extreme pressure.
1. [Dielectric grease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silicone_grease#Dielectric_grease) is a gel-like insulation used on electrical components so the electricity does not arc across it.
1. Calcium in [milk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milk) comes in the form of calcium phosphate.
1. Cement (the Ca(OH)2 kind) is caustic, and can cause chemical burns.
1. [BU-808b](http://batteryuniversity.com/learn/article/bu_808b_what_causes_li_ion_to_die): During charge, a film called solid electrolyte interface (SEI) consisting of (lithium oxide and lithium carbonate) forms on the surface of the (graphite) anode. The film gets thicker and forms a barrier that obstructs interaction with graphite. The cathode develops a similar restrictive layer known as electrolyte oxidation, formed at higher voltages or temperatures.
1. On 2017-10-04, [three old blokes](https://www.quantamagazine.org/supercool-protein-imaging-gets-the-nobel-prize-20171004/) were awarded Nobel prizes in Chemistry for [cryo-electron microscopy](https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/chemistry/laureates/2017/press.html), which allows proteins to be imaged as atoms rather than blobs.
1. High concentrations of fluoride can yellow teeth.
1. The same dude who invented the Haber process for making fertilisers (that would be Mr. Haber), saving millions, ended up inventing chemical warfare, killing millions.
1. Beer curdles milk [because](http://science.howstuffworks.com/innovation/edible-innovations/beer-milk-curdle.htm) the acidity neutralizes the negative charge on the casein grouped into micelles, which cause them to clump together in larger and larger quantities.
1. Potassium (and/or hydrogen) carbonate are conjugate bases of carbonic acid. They are basic.
1. [Ethyl ethanoate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethyl_acetate) is abberviated as EtOAc, because the IUPAC are a group of Commie Frenchists.
1. Rubbing your finger hard will start smelling like sulphur, presumably because your are burning off your cysteine [disulphide bridges](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disulfide).
1. [Vinegar reportedly melts through nitrile gloves in less than one hour.](http://www.augusta.edu/services/ehs/chemsafe/PDF%20files/gloveselechart.pdf) How well other kinds of gloves handle other kinds of chemicals are nonspecific to functional group, so there is not really a trend.
1. "2-Nonenal. It is what makes [old people smell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_person_smell)... well like old people." (Unfounded)
1. "Spermine. Smells like...well, sperm. Pyrrolidine. Also smells like..well, sperm."
1. The damage from ingesting a [button cell battery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Button_cell) is caused by the electric current it creates, which causes sodium hydroxide to build up and burn through the oesophagus and into major blood vessels, which can cause fatal bleeding.
1. Samarium is element 62. Although classified as a rare earth element, there is more samarium in the Earth's crust than tin.
1. Ethanol itself might not be carcinogenic, but ethanal is, so... [liver cancer is responsible for 750k deaths annually](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liver_cancer).
1. Chemists are often good at cooking. Except you. You suck.
1. An [ampere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ampere) is a coulomb per second. All of them are considered SI units.
1. Methanoic acid is poured into rubber tree sap to make rubber. Drying rubber turns it yellow. That's why rubber bands are yellow.
1. *c* is not the speed of light; *c* is ~3e8 m/s, and light happens to travel at that speed. So we call that the speed of light. But other things travel at *c*, too.
1. Brushing teeth after breakfast does not work. [It just brushes the food and acid (in the case of orange juice) around.](https://www.quora.com/Should-you-brush-your-teeth-before-or-after-breakfast)
1. Calcium ammonium nitrate is hygroscopic. Its dissolution in water is endothermic, leading to its use in some instant cold packs.
1. [Pure carbonic acid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbonic_acid#Pure_carbonic_acid) can be made by "...exposing a frozen mixture of water and carbon dioxide to high-energy proton radiation, and then warming to remove the excess water...", or "...a cryogenic reaction of potassium bicarbonate and HCl dissolved in methanol."
1. [Soaps are usually fatty acids](http://www.quirkyscience.com/difference-soap-detergent/). Instead of an acid, detergents may have sulfate or sulfonate groups instead.
1. Cyclohexanhexone aka [Brianone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclohexanehexone), a useless compound, has never been synthesised industrially.
1. For a brief moment in history (2008-2009), [Calgary limited its trans fat content in cooking oil to under 2%.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trans_fat#Health_risks)
1. [Single-crystal sapphire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transparent_ceramics#Sapphire_2) is considered a ceramic.
1. [Gamma-Hydroxybutyric_acid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma-Hydroxybutyric_acid) (GHB) and [Gamma-Butyrolactone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma-Butyrolactone) (GBL, the prodrug) have date-rape effects. Fun fact, it is not illegal to possess GBL in Canada.
1. Use [disiamylborane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disiamylborane) to turn terminal alkynes into aldehydes.
1. [Diethyl ether](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diethyl_ether) can be used as a general anesthetic.
1. [Isovaleric acid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3-Methylbutanoic_acid) is your cheesy feet smell.
1. [Diethylene glycol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diethylene_glycol) is a poisonous diol that can be dissolved in almost everything.
1. [Sodium thiopental](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sodium_thiopental) is a lethal injection used in the US.
1. Tubes must be inserted in pairs in a [centrifuge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laboratory_centrifuge#Microcentrifuge_tubes) so they spin balanced.
1. There is no such thing as a "frame of reference" for a photon. Photons do not have positions.
1. [Thioacetone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thioacetone) is a molecule so stinky that few have studied it.
1. If you charge a lithium ion battery to 60% and stop, the wear is 0.1 cycles worth. 70%? 0.14. [80%? 0.26.](https://accubattery.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/210384245-Quick-start-infographic?mobile_site=false) 85%? 0.35. 90%? 0.48. 95%? 0.66. 100%? 1, obviously. Battery life still depends on the actual hours since made, so just because 1/0.26 = 3.84, it doesn't mean you get a battery that lasts 3.8x longer (more like 2). The equation appears to follow `y = 0.0027 * e^{5.8x}`.
1. [Keto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tautomer) form is the one with a ketone group; Enol form is the one with that ketone group reduced to an alcohol group, but a nearby C-C sigma bond hybridising with a pi (aka double bond). [Keto-enol tautomerism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keto%E2%80%93enol_tautomerism) occurs in aqueous solutions only (faster if either acidic or basic).
1. When cereal makers say they add iron to it, [they actually add solid Fe-0](http://littleshop.physics.colostate.edu/Try%20At%20Home/IronCereal.htm). Not even oxide, just iron.
1. Replacing BPA with [BPF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bisphenol_F) or [BPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bisphenol_S) (i.e. "BPA-free") is [not that great](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QuMGc0EswTc&feature=youtu.be). BPF/BPS can alter testosterone levels.
1. [Cobalt-chrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cobalt-chrome) is an alloy made with cobalt and chrome.
1. [Pop fizzes more when you shake it](https://www.scienceabc.com/pure-sciences/why-a-soft-drink-bottle-fizzes-when-opened.html) as a direct consequence of you adding energy into the bottle by shaking it. More energy upsets the equilibrium, giving trapped gas enough energy to break surface tension, forming bubbles.
1. [The mint lifesaver glows in the dark when bitten into.](http://recipes.howstuffworks.com/question505.htm) "Actually, all hard sugar-based candies emit some degree of light when you bite them, but most of the time, that light is very faint." Crystalline sugar emits energy as UV light when crushed, and the methyl salicylate in that mint absorbs UV light and emits visible light.
1. [TNT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinitrotoluene) is not [trinitroglycerin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nitroglycerin), which can be made by slowly adding 1:1 HNO3/H2SO4 into cold glycerol. The HNO3/H2SO4 process is done twice for TNT, plus an extra nitration step using HNO3 and oleum (apparently).
1. Whatever you used to call "precipitate out", apparently professional chemists just call "crash out". It involves making a soluble compound insoluble by, well, changing the solubility of the solvent.
1. Only elements lighter than iron can be used for [nuclear fusion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_binding_energy#/media/File%3ABinding_energy_curve_-_common_isotopes.svg) and still yield energy.
1. [Dishwasher detergents do not foam up inside the dishwasher.](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/5j08ot/how_do_suds_bubbles_influence_a_soapdetergents/)
1. "Cultured celery extract" is marketing's way of saying (sodium) nitrite, a cancerous food preservative.
1. Opoids cause constipation.
1. Epsom salt in a bath does nothing medically beneficial. It is also impossible to get too much magnesium from epsom salt baths. People go into saturated magnesium sulphate baths in isolation tanks all the time, and none of them were poisoned by it.
1. It is possible to ["accidentally make an explosive"](http://epigram.org.uk/news/2017/02/41190), [TATP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetone_peroxide), by mixing acetone and hydrogen peroxide. *Wolffenstein combined acetone and hydrogen peroxide, and then he allowed the mixture to stand for a week at room temperature, during which time a small quantity of crystals precipitated*. The resulting powder is [fairly useless](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MEdnNOi6DS4).
1. [Mineral wool](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mineral_wool) is a bunch of mineral fibres spun together.
1. Biodiesel came from used cooking oil and cow hide processing. Proponents say biodiesel contains less cancer-causing particles.
1. Drinking wine for antioxidants because it prevents cancer, ignoring the fact that alcohol is a top-notch carcinogen, is human stupidity.
1. [Naltrexone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naltrexone), more or less an u-opioid blocker, might cure alcoholism by never allowing a buzz, provided it was ingested immediately before a drink, not daily.
1. Nair's active ingredients are calcium hydroxide (lime) and sodium hydroxide (lye).
1. According to Wolfram Alpha, [one drop of water is 50 µL](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=volume+of+one+drop+of+water).
1. [Enamel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tooth_enamel), the hardest material produced by humans, is only 5 on the hardness scale, yet *still* cracks.
1. Zinc is a powerful lewis acid (electron [pair] acceptor). [Swallowing a post-1982 American one cent piece (97.5% zinc) can cause damage to the stomach lining through the high solubility of the zinc ion in the acidic stomach.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zinc#cite_note-215)
1. DEET is a solvent. It should not be used on plastics and painted surfaces.
1. In zinc batteries, [the housing is the anode.](http://www.differencebetween.net/technology/difference-between-zinc-and-alkaline/) This means the housing is consumed when the battery is used, making it more prone to leakage.
1. [Putrescine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Putrescine), apart from making up the smell of dead flesh, also contributes to smells like bad breath, bacterial vaginosis, and semen.
1. "[Cocaethylene](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cocaethylene)" is formed by the liver when cocaine and ethanol coexist in the blood. Apparently it ... carries an 18- to 25-fold increase over cocaine alone in risk of immediate death. Or, if you are an optimist, you may find your chance of dying from cocaine alone at most 1/18 as likely as this cocaethylene thing.
1. [/u/SimplyOriginal](https://www.reddit.com/r/Drugs/comments/2quas2/weed_as_a_party_drug/cn9ncl8/) posts about maximising alcohol's per-unit potential: *Eat [fatty foods and carbs] 45mins before your first drink [to] slow down the absorption rate. Maintain a [steady] increase of [BAC]. Stick to one type of alcohol [to maintain the feel-good effects. Do not] hammer shots.*
1. Cocaine stops being detectable in fluids after a few days.
1. Lasers burn away rust, but not with the iron underneath, because rust absorbs more light than iron.
1. (Throwback Wednesday) Buffer solutions can only be made from [weak acids](http://chemcollective.org/activities/tutorials/buffers/buffers3) (and their conjugate bases). When a strong acid is added, the conjugate base neutralises it. When a strong base is added, the acid protonates, neutralising the base. In both cases, the pH did not change much.
1. Aluminium cookware can potentially add [1~2mg](http://www.livestrong.com/article/475155-health-risks-of-cooking-in-aluminum/) of it to your diet per day. The upper limit is 85mg. Better safe than sorry.
1. The [pH of urine](https://www.rnceus.com/ua/uaph.html) can vary wildly from 4.5 to 8. It correlates to whatever pH your body is, which can be low (dehydration) or high (crazy illnesses, see link).
1. [Oxalic acid](https://www.livescience.com/56237-why-spinach-makes-teeth-feel-weird.html) is the cause of spinach making your teeth feel funny. Too much (now calcium oxalate) in your kidneys become kidney stones.
1. Henna is light brown. There is no such thing as black henna. [Black henna is P-Phenylenediamine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P-Phenylenediamine), which is a banned skin irritant (for henna).
1. Microscopic glass cracks get bigger as you drop the phone more often.
1. [Hands rely on keratin softening from moisture from sweat to improve grip.](http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2017/09/19/1706233114.full)

Commit message:

bash lets you poop and cry in the bathroom at the same time

chemistry.md, after:

1. [Old batteries hit the voltage limit sooner](http://batteryuniversity.com/learn/article/bu_409a_why_do_old_li_ion_batteries_take_long_to_charge), which appears to limit the amount of time the battery can stay in top amperage.
1. NyQuil [pre-mixes acetaminophen in ethanol](https://www.vicks.ca/en-ca/shop-products/nyquil/nyquil-cold-and-flu-nighttime-relief-liquid).
1. If you [do all sorts of things to wood (sodium hydroxide... sodium sulphite... crush... hot press...) to the point where it doesn't even qualify as wood anymore, it is stronger than wood](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-01600-6), says the University of Maryland.
1. (Probably all) electron microscopes have [moledular pumps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turbomolecular_pump) that create a vacuum.
1. [Konjac](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Konjac) 蒟蒻 geoi2 joek6 must be neutralised with calcium hydroxide and cooked before it can be eaten. [Glucomannan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glucomannan) is usually what's eaten.
1. The amphiphilic detergent in [Tide pods](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumption_of_Tide_Pods) will cause any cells in contact to explode. Enough cells undergoing necrosis will kill you.
1. Cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor drugs are actually trying to limit the production of [thromboxanes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thromboxane) (COX-1) and [prostaglandins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prostaglandin) (COX-1, COX-2). Prostaglandins protect the stomach lining, so limiting its production has a side effect of gastrointestinal issues.
1. [Polyester hold onto things much stronger than cotton.](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2014/09/05/346055067/stinky-t-shirt-bacteria-love-polyester-in-a-special-way) This includes colour (pro) and body odour (con). [*Micrococcus*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micrococcus) bacteria like polyester more, and are transmitted by washing machines.
1. Octane rating is standardised from 0, that of [n-heptane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heptane), to 100, that of [2,2,4-trimethylpentane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2,2,4-Trimethylpentane).
1. The duct tape colour is a powdered aluminium pigment.
1. Antioxidants are reducing agents. They just repair oxidation. They do not directly counter free radicals.
1. "Himalania" produces [non-GMO salt](https://www.mnn.com/food/healthy-eating/blogs/facepalm-of-the-week-non-gmo-salt).
1. Maniacs out there actually [put cleaning bleach in their baths](https://www.dermnetnz.org/topics/bleach-baths-in-patients-with-skin-infections/) to simulate some kind of "swimming pool water" that treats skin infections.
1. You can [melt cyanoacrylate superglue with acetone](https://m.wikihow.com/Get-Super-Glue-Off-Skin). "Do not use a cotton swab, as this can react very violently with cyanoacrylate"
1. [Bathyscaphe Trieste](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bathyscaphe_Trieste), the mariana trench sub, uses gasoline for buoyancy because it is less dense than water, and incompressible even at extreme pressure.
1. [Dielectric grease](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silicone_grease#Dielectric_grease) is a gel-like insulation used on electrical components so the electricity does not arc across it.
1. Calcium in [milk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milk) comes in the form of calcium phosphate.
1. Cement (the Ca(OH)2 kind) is caustic, and can cause chemical burns.
1. [BU-808b](http://batteryuniversity.com/learn/article/bu_808b_what_causes_li_ion_to_die): During charge, a film called solid electrolyte interface (SEI) consisting of (lithium oxide and lithium carbonate) forms on the surface of the (graphite) anode. The film gets thicker and forms a barrier that obstructs interaction with graphite. The cathode develops a similar restrictive layer known as electrolyte oxidation, formed at higher voltages or temperatures.
1. On 2017-10-04, [three old blokes](https://www.quantamagazine.org/supercool-protein-imaging-gets-the-nobel-prize-20171004/) were awarded Nobel prizes in Chemistry for [cryo-electron microscopy](https://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/chemistry/laureates/2017/press.html), which allows proteins to be imaged as atoms rather than blobs.
1. High concentrations of fluoride can yellow teeth.
1. The same dude who invented the Haber process for making fertilisers (that would be Mr. Haber), saving millions, ended up inventing chemical warfare, killing millions.
1. Beer curdles milk [because](http://science.howstuffworks.com/innovation/edible-innovations/beer-milk-curdle.htm) the acidity neutralizes the negative charge on the casein grouped into micelles, which cause them to clump together in larger and larger quantities.
1. Potassium (and/or hydrogen) carbonate are conjugate bases of carbonic acid. They are basic.
1. [Ethyl ethanoate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethyl_acetate) is abberviated as EtOAc, because the IUPAC are a group of Commie Frenchists.
1. Rubbing your finger hard will start smelling like sulphur, presumably because your are burning off your cysteine [disulphide bridges](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disulfide).
1. [Vinegar reportedly melts through nitrile gloves in less than one hour.](http://www.augusta.edu/services/ehs/chemsafe/PDF%20files/gloveselechart.pdf) How well other kinds of gloves handle other kinds of chemicals are nonspecific to functional group, so there is not really a trend.
1. "2-Nonenal. It is what makes [old people smell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_person_smell)... well like old people." (Unfounded)
1. "Spermine. Smells like...well, sperm. Pyrrolidine. Also smells like..well, sperm."
1. The damage from ingesting a [button cell battery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Button_cell) is caused by the electric current it creates, which causes sodium hydroxide to build up and burn through the oesophagus and into major blood vessels, which can cause fatal bleeding.
1. Samarium is element 62. Although classified as a rare earth element, there is more samarium in the Earth's crust than tin.
1. Ethanol itself might not be carcinogenic, but ethanal is, so... [liver cancer is responsible for 750k deaths annually](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liver_cancer).
1. Chemists are often good at cooking. Except you. You suck.
1. An [ampere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ampere) is a coulomb per second. All of them are considered SI units.
1. Methanoic acid is poured into rubber tree sap to make rubber. Drying rubber turns it yellow. That's why rubber bands are yellow.
1. *c* is not the speed of light; *c* is ~3e8 m/s, and light happens to travel at that speed. So we call that the speed of light. But other things travel at *c*, too.
1. Brushing teeth after breakfast does not work. [It just brushes the food and acid (in the case of orange juice) around.](https://www.quora.com/Should-you-brush-your-teeth-before-or-after-breakfast)
1. Calcium ammonium nitrate is hygroscopic. Its dissolution in water is endothermic, leading to its use in some instant cold packs.
1. [Pure carbonic acid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbonic_acid#Pure_carbonic_acid) can be made by "...exposing a frozen mixture of water and carbon dioxide to high-energy proton radiation, and then warming to remove the excess water...", or "...a cryogenic reaction of potassium bicarbonate and HCl dissolved in methanol."
1. [Soaps are usually fatty acids](http://www.quirkyscience.com/difference-soap-detergent/). Instead of an acid, detergents may have sulfate or sulfonate groups instead.
1. Cyclohexanhexone aka [Brianone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclohexanehexone), a useless compound, has never been synthesised industrially.
1. For a brief moment in history (2008-2009), [Calgary limited its trans fat content in cooking oil to under 2%.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trans_fat#Health_risks)
1. [Single-crystal sapphire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transparent_ceramics#Sapphire_2) is considered a ceramic.
1. [Gamma-Hydroxybutyric_acid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma-Hydroxybutyric_acid) (GHB) and [Gamma-Butyrolactone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma-Butyrolactone) (GBL, the prodrug) have date-rape effects. Fun fact, it is not illegal to possess GBL in Canada.
1. Use [disiamylborane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disiamylborane) to turn terminal alkynes into aldehydes.
1. [Diethyl ether](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diethyl_ether) can be used as a general anesthetic.
1. [Isovaleric acid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3-Methylbutanoic_acid) is your cheesy feet smell.
1. [Diethylene glycol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diethylene_glycol) is a poisonous diol that can be dissolved in almost everything.
1. [Sodium thiopental](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sodium_thiopental) is a lethal injection used in the US.
1. Tubes must be inserted in pairs in a [centrifuge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laboratory_centrifuge#Microcentrifuge_tubes) so they spin balanced.
1. There is no such thing as a "frame of reference" for a photon. Photons do not have positions.
1. [Thioacetone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thioacetone) is a molecule so stinky that few have studied it.
1. If you charge a lithium ion battery to 60% and stop, the wear is 0.1 cycles worth. 70%? 0.14. [80%? 0.26.](https://accubattery.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/210384245-Quick-start-infographic?mobile_site=false) 85%? 0.35. 90%? 0.48. 95%? 0.66. 100%? 1, obviously. Battery life still depends on the actual hours since made, so just because 1/0.26 = 3.84, it doesn't mean you get a battery that lasts 3.8x longer (more like 2). The equation appears to follow `y = 0.0027 * e^{5.8x}`.
1. [Keto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tautomer) form is the one with a ketone group; Enol form is the one with that ketone group reduced to an alcohol group, but a nearby C-C sigma bond hybridising with a pi (aka double bond). [Keto-enol tautomerism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keto%E2%80%93enol_tautomerism) occurs in aqueous solutions only (faster if either acidic or basic).
1. When cereal makers say they add iron to it, [they actually add solid Fe-0](http://littleshop.physics.colostate.edu/Try%20At%20Home/IronCereal.htm). Not even oxide, just iron.
1. Replacing BPA with [BPF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bisphenol_F) or [BPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bisphenol_S) (i.e. "BPA-free") is [not that great](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QuMGc0EswTc&feature=youtu.be). BPF/BPS can alter testosterone levels.
1. [Cobalt-chrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cobalt-chrome) is an alloy made with cobalt and chrome.
1. [Pop fizzes more when you shake it](https://www.scienceabc.com/pure-sciences/why-a-soft-drink-bottle-fizzes-when-opened.html) as a direct consequence of you adding energy into the bottle by shaking it. More energy upsets the equilibrium, giving trapped gas enough energy to break surface tension, forming bubbles.
1. [The mint lifesaver glows in the dark when bitten into.](http://recipes.howstuffworks.com/question505.htm) "Actually, all hard sugar-based candies emit some degree of light when you bite them, but most of the time, that light is very faint." Crystalline sugar emits energy as UV light when crushed, and the methyl salicylate in that mint absorbs UV light and emits visible light.
1. [TNT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinitrotoluene) is not [trinitroglycerin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nitroglycerin), which can be made by slowly adding 1:1 HNO3/H2SO4 into cold glycerol. The HNO3/H2SO4 process is done twice for TNT, plus an extra nitration step using HNO3 and oleum (apparently).
1. Whatever you used to call "precipitate out", apparently professional chemists just call "crash out". It involves making a soluble compound insoluble by, well, changing the solubility of the solvent.
1. Only elements lighter than iron can be used for [nuclear fusion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_binding_energy#/media/File%3ABinding_energy_curve_-_common_isotopes.svg) and still yield energy.
1. [Dishwasher detergents do not foam up inside the dishwasher.](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/5j08ot/how_do_suds_bubbles_influence_a_soapdetergents/)
1. "Cultured celery extract" is marketing's way of saying (sodium) nitrite, a cancerous food preservative.
1. Opoids cause constipation.
1. Epsom salt in a bath does nothing medically beneficial. It is also impossible to get too much magnesium from epsom salt baths. People go into saturated magnesium sulphate baths in isolation tanks all the time, and none of them were poisoned by it.
1. It is possible to ["accidentally make an explosive"](http://epigram.org.uk/news/2017/02/41190), [TATP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetone_peroxide), by mixing acetone and hydrogen peroxide. *Wolffenstein combined acetone and hydrogen peroxide, and then he allowed the mixture to stand for a week at room temperature, during which time a small quantity of crystals precipitated*. The resulting powder is [fairly useless](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MEdnNOi6DS4).
1. [Mineral wool](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mineral_wool) is a bunch of mineral fibres spun together.
1. Biodiesel came from used cooking oil and cow hide processing. Proponents say biodiesel contains less cancer-causing particles.
1. Drinking wine for antioxidants because it prevents cancer, ignoring the fact that alcohol is a top-notch carcinogen, is human stupidity.
1. [Naltrexone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naltrexone), more or less an u-opioid blocker, might cure alcoholism by never allowing a buzz, provided it was ingested immediately before a drink, not daily.
1. Nair's active ingredients are calcium hydroxide (lime) and sodium hydroxide (lye).
1. According to Wolfram Alpha, [one drop of water is 50 µL](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=volume+of+one+drop+of+water).
1. [Enamel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tooth_enamel), the hardest material produced by humans, is only 5 on the hardness scale, yet *still* cracks.
1. Zinc is a powerful lewis acid (electron [pair] acceptor). [Swallowing a post-1982 American one cent piece (97.5% zinc) can cause damage to the stomach lining through the high solubility of the zinc ion in the acidic stomach.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zinc#cite_note-215)
1. DEET is a solvent. It should not be used on plastics and painted surfaces.
1. In zinc batteries, [the housing is the anode.](http://www.differencebetween.net/technology/difference-between-zinc-and-alkaline/) This means the housing is consumed when the battery is used, making it more prone to leakage.
1. [Putrescine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Putrescine), apart from making up the smell of dead flesh, also contributes to smells like bad breath, bacterial vaginosis, and semen.
1. "[Cocaethylene](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cocaethylene)" is formed by the liver when cocaine and ethanol coexist in the blood. Apparently it ... carries an 18- to 25-fold increase over cocaine alone in risk of immediate death. Or, if you are an optimist, you may find your chance of dying from cocaine alone at most 1/18 as likely as this cocaethylene thing.
1. [/u/SimplyOriginal](https://www.reddit.com/r/Drugs/comments/2quas2/weed_as_a_party_drug/cn9ncl8/) posts about maximising alcohol's per-unit potential: *Eat [fatty foods and carbs] 45mins before your first drink [to] slow down the absorption rate. Maintain a [steady] increase of [BAC]. Stick to one type of alcohol [to maintain the feel-good effects. Do not] hammer shots.*
1. Cocaine stops being detectable in fluids after a few days.
1. Lasers burn away rust, but not with the iron underneath, because rust absorbs more light than iron.
1. (Throwback Wednesday) Buffer solutions can only be made from [weak acids](http://chemcollective.org/activities/tutorials/buffers/buffers3) (and their conjugate bases). When a strong acid is added, the conjugate base neutralises it. When a strong base is added, the acid protonates, neutralising the base. In both cases, the pH did not change much.
1. Aluminium cookware can potentially add [1~2mg](http://www.livestrong.com/article/475155-health-risks-of-cooking-in-aluminum/) of it to your diet per day. The upper limit is 85mg. Better safe than sorry.
1. The [pH of urine](https://www.rnceus.com/ua/uaph.html) can vary wildly from 4.5 to 8. It correlates to whatever pH your body is, which can be low (dehydration) or high (crazy illnesses, see link).
1. [Oxalic acid](https://www.livescience.com/56237-why-spinach-makes-teeth-feel-weird.html) is the cause of spinach making your teeth feel funny. Too much (now calcium oxalate) in your kidneys become kidney stones.
1. Henna is light brown. There is no such thing as black henna. [Black henna is P-Phenylenediamine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P-Phenylenediamine), which is a banned skin irritant (for henna).
1. Microscopic glass cracks get bigger as you drop the phone more often.
1. [Hands rely on keratin softening from moisture from sweat to improve grip.](http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2017/09/19/1706233114.full)
