china.md, before:

![China](https://i.imgur.com/eBrhm2h.jpg)

- Any woman whose family requests a ["彩礼"](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%BD%A9%E7%A4%BC/81908) (money from the man's family to the woman's family) shall send to the man's family, along with the woman, a multiple-value of ["嫁妆"](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%AB%81%E5%A6%86/4594) (money from the woman's family to the man's family), so clever famliies don't do that anymore.
- Congee used to be called [糜](http://www.cantonese.sheik.co.uk/dictionary/characters/8045/) (M: mei2/ C: mei4).
- The 铺盖 in 铺盖面 means blanket. The noodles are wide and they say they look like blankets.
- China didn't have the chili pepper until the Ming dynasty.
- [不見棺材不掉淚](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E4%B8%8D%E8%A6%8B%E6%A3%BA%E6%9D%90%E4%B8%8D%E6%8E%89%E6%B7%9A) (唔見棺材唔流眼淚) either means [you (or your optimism) refuse to accept reality until it hits you real hard](https://news.rthk.hk/rthk/ch/component/k2/1518681-20200403.htm), or that you cannot be convinced to give up despite the circumstances.
- [WireGuard is NOT known to be stealthy](https://www.reddit.com/r/Android/comments/f67mb9/firefox_releases_android_app_for_its_vpn_service/fi3fk0a/). It is not designed to bypass the great firewall.
- The entire province of [Guangxi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guangxi) is an autonomous region run by an ethnic minority.
- [Some "China Highlights" website](https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/chinese-food/spring-rolls.htm) claims that spring rolls were not rolled up (as "春盘", i.e. served as vegetables on dough) until some time in the Ming dynasty (1368 to 1644).
- Poor people up in northern China just [fry up potato, green pepper and eggplant](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%9C%B0%E4%B8%89%E9%B2%9C/32207) and call it a meal. When they feel like being special, they add *red* peppers.
- The [18-digit Chinese ID card number](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zsCuJapNoZM) contains information as follows: (1 ~ 6) location, (7 ~ 10) year, (11 ~ 12) month, (13 ~ 14) day, (15 ~ 17) auto-increment number, because more than one person is born at a location every day (plus even/odd, where even is female and odd is male). The last(18) digit is the check digit, which can be `[0-9X]`.
- A Chinese guinea pig is called a "Dutch pig".
- At least part of why the Chinese are so competitive is the saying 成者為王，敗者為寇 ("the winner becomes king, the loser becomes outlaw"), in line with the [mandate of heaven](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandate_of_Heaven), that you must win to possess power.
- [The Chinese constitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitution_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China#1982_Constitution) gets a new revision every other time a new leader takes control.
- Gmail is banned in China. So is Facebook, Youtube, Twitter, Instagram, and Dropbox. Fun fact maybe? [On Wikipedia, it says Wikipedia is banned](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Websites_blocked_in_mainland_China).
- China builds so many high speed trains because they have the political will to. China built a money-losing high-speed railway into Xinjiang to [promote ethnic unity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JDoll8OEFE), i.e. bring the place closer to Beijing so the region can be controlled. They did the exact same thing with Hong Kong, except at least it makes financial sense. Some Hong Kong people don't like it because there is now a spot inside the Hong Kong station that is part of China, violating the autonomy promised by the Basic Law.
- [Chinese users spend an average of 70 minutes a day in WeChat alone](https://www.dragonsocial.net/blog/social-media-in-china/), the app that---mentioned elsewhere in this list---clearly makes data available to the government.
- The Chinese version of The Looper has [15 extra minutes of scenes shot in Shanghai](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8R-FQTY4KJk).
- [Never use WeChat.](http://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/companies/wechat-confirms-that-it-makes-all-private-user-data-available-to-the-chinese-government-2391847.html)
- A certain [man named Xi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Jinping) removed the Chinese president's two-term limit while he was president, in 2018. Apparently [two people voted against the idea](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-43361276) but thousands said aye.
- The Chinese workforce call it [the 996](http://www.bbc.com/capital/story/20180508-young-chinese-are-sick-of-working-overtime): work from 9am to 9pm for 6 days a week.
- The first day of [Chinese New Year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_New_Year) always falls between 21 January and 20 February.
- It's always new moon during Chinese New year... It's not a coincidence... Dumbass...
- China's internet has so few Internet Exchange Points (IXPs) that [Oracle said it is more like a giant Intranet](https://www.zdnet.com/article/oracle-chinas-internet-is-designed-more-like-an-intranet/). While traffic in other countries can traval through different countries if it is faster, traffic between Chinese client-servers never leaves China.
- The Chinese claim to be able to identify whether someone is potentially a criminal by [looking at their faces](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/602955/neural-network-learns-to-identify-criminals-by-their-faces/), raising concerns for successful, law-abiding citizens that are just ugly.
- [神韵 is a Falun Gong thing](https://www.scpr.org/news/2018/04/27/82543/shen-yun-chinese-falun-gong/). It even says 法輪大法好 right in the play.
- 666 (溜溜溜) means "smooth, oddly satisfying" among adolescent Chinese youth.
- A 时 is 2 hours long, and 刻 is 15 minutes long. [This system is derived from the position of the sun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traditional_Chinese_timekeeping).
- The last courses in a Chinese cuisine are usually the ones they also pack up and let you bring home.
- The Chinese consumed 69 times more pork than Canadians in 2015. That is roughly twice as much per capita.
- The majority of videos on tudou.com have _Chinese_ subtitles because it is obvious, even to them, that their _standardised_ dialect cannot be understood.
- [The Chinese social credit system](https://www.businessinsider.com/china-social-credit-system-punishments-and-rewards-explained-2018-4) prevents people with low scores to: book flights/trains, get fast Internet, get your kids into the best schools, get the best jobs, book the best hotels, and so on. There is no numeric "score" yet, though, just a blacklist.
- The same place where 普洱 tea came from is also [China's tin capital](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gejiu).
- The [Great Wall of China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Wall_of_China) comes in multiple discrete sections, sometimes even perpendicular to each other. The touristy parts are well-kept obviously, but the other parts are often in disrepair.
- The CPC is a funny party because [the party was founded on Marxist principles, but they also arrest Marxists](https://www.npr.org/2018/11/21/669509554/in-china-the-communist-partys-latest-unlikely-target-young-marxists).
- China uses mobile [execution vans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Execution_van) to make capital punishment more fun, engaging, and cost-effective.
- China's [social credit system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Credit_System) is something like [Nosedive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nosedive#Comparisons_to_Social_Credit_System), an episode of Black Mirror, except the citizens like it, and it's more like your equifax / transunion score, where your government runs one.
- Being gay is decriminalised in China [since 1997](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_China), and declassified as a mental illness in 2001. Still a lot of stigma though.
- There are actually [nine political parties in China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_China), but the CCP has 99% of all voting members, and the [Constitution of China's Preamble](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitution_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China) says "the Communist Party of China" [four times](http://en.people.cn/constitution/constitution.html). [The CCP has/had 2980 seats, while the other parties have 175 seats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/13th_National_People%27s_Congress).
- Fun fact: [Kuomintang is still a puppet party in mainland China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revolutionary_Committee_of_the_Chinese_Kuomintang).

Commit message:

Guess Im never going to Bulgaria

china.md, after:

![China](https://i.imgur.com/eBrhm2h.jpg)

- Originally meaning "strengthening one's integrity alone", "独善其身" now basically means "it's every man for himself".
- There are multiple types of [Chinese people overseas](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E6%B5%B7%E5%A4%96%E8%8F%AF%E4%BA%BA): 华侨, Chinese citizens who settled overseas; 华人, former Chinese citizens having obtained citizenship elsewhere; and 华裔, children of the other two types, born outside China. Despite potentially having never been to China, 华裔 can have Chinese citizenship by parental association.
- China's ["IPv9"](http://www.circleid.com/posts/explaining_chinas_ipv9/) is actually just a DNS that maps something back onto IPv4/6. [The addresses are pure numbers](https://wiki.mbalib.com/wiki/%E6%95%B0%E5%AD%97%E5%9F%9F%E5%90%8D), so perhaps you can have your phone number and have the same number as your IPv9 address.
- Unfortunately, "bloodbath" translates to "bath blood" (浴血).
- The mother of the king is also called the [dowager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empress_dowager). 慈禧太后 was one.
- Mainlanders called Hong Kong people [黄尸](https://jikipedia.com/definition/130025421) regardless of their opinion of the 2014/2019 democracy protests.
- Any woman whose family requests a ["彩礼"](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%BD%A9%E7%A4%BC/81908) (money from the man's family to the woman's family) shall send to the man's family, along with the woman, a multiple-value of ["嫁妆"](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%AB%81%E5%A6%86/4594) (money from the woman's family to the man's family), so clever famliies don't do that anymore.
- Congee used to be called [糜](http://www.cantonese.sheik.co.uk/dictionary/characters/8045/) (M: mei2/ C: mei4).
- The 铺盖 in 铺盖面 means blanket. The noodles are wide and they say they look like blankets.
- China didn't have the chili pepper until the Ming dynasty.
- [不見棺材不掉淚](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/%E4%B8%8D%E8%A6%8B%E6%A3%BA%E6%9D%90%E4%B8%8D%E6%8E%89%E6%B7%9A) (唔見棺材唔流眼淚) either means [you (or your optimism) refuse to accept reality until it hits you real hard](https://news.rthk.hk/rthk/ch/component/k2/1518681-20200403.htm), or that you cannot be convinced to give up despite the circumstances.
- [WireGuard is NOT known to be stealthy](https://www.reddit.com/r/Android/comments/f67mb9/firefox_releases_android_app_for_its_vpn_service/fi3fk0a/). It is not designed to bypass the great firewall.
- The entire province of [Guangxi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guangxi) is an autonomous region run by an ethnic minority.
- [Some "China Highlights" website](https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/chinese-food/spring-rolls.htm) claims that spring rolls were not rolled up (as "春盘", i.e. served as vegetables on dough) until some time in the Ming dynasty (1368 to 1644).
- Poor people up in northern China just [fry up potato, green pepper and eggplant](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%9C%B0%E4%B8%89%E9%B2%9C/32207) and call it a meal. When they feel like being special, they add *red* peppers.
- The [18-digit Chinese ID card number](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zsCuJapNoZM) contains information as follows: (1 ~ 6) location, (7 ~ 10) year, (11 ~ 12) month, (13 ~ 14) day, (15 ~ 17) auto-increment number, because more than one person is born at a location every day (plus even/odd, where even is female and odd is male). The last(18) digit is the check digit, which can be `[0-9X]`.
- A Chinese guinea pig is called a "Dutch pig".
- At least part of why the Chinese are so competitive is the saying 成者為王，敗者為寇 ("the winner becomes king, the loser becomes outlaw"), in line with the [mandate of heaven](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandate_of_Heaven), that you must win to possess power.
- [The Chinese constitution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitution_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China#1982_Constitution) gets a new revision every other time a new leader takes control.
- Gmail is banned in China. So is Facebook, Youtube, Twitter, Instagram, and Dropbox. Fun fact maybe? [On Wikipedia, it says Wikipedia is banned](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Websites_blocked_in_mainland_China).
- China builds so many high speed trains because they have the political will to. China built a money-losing high-speed railway into Xinjiang to [promote ethnic unity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JDoll8OEFE), i.e. bring the place closer to Beijing so the region can be controlled. They did the exact same thing with Hong Kong, except at least it makes financial sense. Some Hong Kong people don't like it because there is now a spot inside the Hong Kong station that is part of China, violating the autonomy promised by the Basic Law.
- [Chinese users spend an average of 70 minutes a day in WeChat alone](https://www.dragonsocial.net/blog/social-media-in-china/), the app that---mentioned elsewhere in this list---clearly makes data available to the government.
- The Chinese version of The Looper has [15 extra minutes of scenes shot in Shanghai](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8R-FQTY4KJk).
- [Never use WeChat.](http://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/companies/wechat-confirms-that-it-makes-all-private-user-data-available-to-the-chinese-government-2391847.html)
- A certain [man named Xi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Jinping) removed the Chinese president's two-term limit while he was president, in 2018. Apparently [two people voted against the idea](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-43361276) but thousands said aye.
- The Chinese workforce call it [the 996](http://www.bbc.com/capital/story/20180508-young-chinese-are-sick-of-working-overtime): work from 9am to 9pm for 6 days a week.
- The first day of [Chinese New Year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_New_Year) always falls between 21 January and 20 February.
- It's always new moon during Chinese New year... It's not a coincidence... Dumbass...
- China's internet has so few Internet Exchange Points (IXPs) that [Oracle said it is more like a giant Intranet](https://www.zdnet.com/article/oracle-chinas-internet-is-designed-more-like-an-intranet/). While traffic in other countries can traval through different countries if it is faster, traffic between Chinese client-servers never leaves China.
- The Chinese claim to be able to identify whether someone is potentially a criminal by [looking at their faces](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/602955/neural-network-learns-to-identify-criminals-by-their-faces/), raising concerns for successful, law-abiding citizens that are just ugly.
- [神韵 is a Falun Gong thing](https://www.scpr.org/news/2018/04/27/82543/shen-yun-chinese-falun-gong/). It even says 法輪大法好 right in the play.
- 666 (溜溜溜) means "smooth, oddly satisfying" among adolescent Chinese youth.
- A 时 is 2 hours long, and 刻 is 15 minutes long. [This system is derived from the position of the sun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traditional_Chinese_timekeeping).
- The last courses in a Chinese cuisine are usually the ones they also pack up and let you bring home.
- The Chinese consumed 69 times more pork than Canadians in 2015. That is roughly twice as much per capita.
- The majority of videos on tudou.com have _Chinese_ subtitles because it is obvious, even to them, that their _standardised_ dialect cannot be understood.
- [The Chinese social credit system](https://www.businessinsider.com/china-social-credit-system-punishments-and-rewards-explained-2018-4) prevents people with low scores to: book flights/trains, get fast Internet, get your kids into the best schools, get the best jobs, book the best hotels, and so on. There is no numeric "score" yet, though, just a blacklist.
- The same place where 普洱 tea came from is also [China's tin capital](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gejiu).
- The [Great Wall of China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Wall_of_China) comes in multiple discrete sections, sometimes even perpendicular to each other. The touristy parts are well-kept obviously, but the other parts are often in disrepair.
- The CPC is a funny party because [the party was founded on Marxist principles, but they also arrest Marxists](https://www.npr.org/2018/11/21/669509554/in-china-the-communist-partys-latest-unlikely-target-young-marxists).
- China uses mobile [execution vans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Execution_van) to make capital punishment more fun, engaging, and cost-effective.
- China's [social credit system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Credit_System) is something like [Nosedive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nosedive#Comparisons_to_Social_Credit_System), an episode of Black Mirror, except the citizens like it, and it's more like your equifax / transunion score, where your government runs one.
- Being gay is decriminalised in China [since 1997](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_China), and declassified as a mental illness in 2001. Still a lot of stigma though.
- There are actually [nine political parties in China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_political_parties_in_China), but the CCP has 99% of all voting members, and the [Constitution of China's Preamble](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constitution_of_the_People%27s_Republic_of_China) says "the Communist Party of China" [four times](http://en.people.cn/constitution/constitution.html). [The CCP has/had 2980 seats, while the other parties have 175 seats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/13th_National_People%27s_Congress).
- Fun fact: [Kuomintang is still a puppet party in mainland China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revolutionary_Committee_of_the_Chinese_Kuomintang).
