christianity.md, before:

- The [Tower of Babel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_of_Babel) was the tower they were building to reach heaven (Genesis 11:1–9). God saw how "close" they got to heaven and confounded their speech. "The Book of Jubilees mentions the tower's height as being ... 2484 m"... anyway, it doesn't exist.
- [Jesus was born between 6BC and 4BC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_Jesus) because the calendar sucks.
- [Pope Francis had a lung removed when he was young](https://abcnews.go.com/blogs/health/2013/03/13/new-pope-had-lung-removed-during-childhood). Infection.
- Thomas Jefferson [created a bible](https://www.christianity.com/wiki/bible/what-is-the-jefferson-bible.html) that didn't have Jesus performing miracles in it. He said he was a Christian, but thought Jesus was strictly human (a good teacher though), and that his miracles were later added into the bible "agenda-driven ... by Jesus’ followers."
- Paul never met Jesus, but behold, [Pauline Christianity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pauline_Christianity) is what most Christians follow now.
- People say there is a disciple called [Thaddeus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jude_the_Apostle) only because there are two Judases/Judi, and they needed a way to tell the difference between Judas the traitor, and Judas Thaddaeus, the other one.
- [God and Allah may not be the same entity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m0jDTFyHluw): although the two religions both say there is only one god, you automatically gain salvation from the Christian one, but not the case for the one in Islam. Allah is a bit like the old testament god, in the sense that the muslim god issues rules and laws to follow in order have a chance at earning salvation... but since they both say there is only one god, at least one side has to be wrong.
- [A drought probably did happen around when the bible said Joseph was in Egypt](https://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/judaism/history/joseph.shtml) (the one in Genesis, not the one in Matthew), but this provides as much backing as other events in the bible as "Hogwarts and magic are real because we are reasonably sure Kings Cross station existed", [reddit theorised](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/dkyisw/-/f4kmlyk).
- [Saint Columba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columba) was a) known for turning water into wine, and b) responsible for ["the first copyright dispute"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8f8xP-O0vD0). In 560 AD, he copied [Finnian's Latin translation of the bible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finnian_of_Movilla), and when [the King of Ireland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diarmait_mac_Cerbaill) settled the dispute, he waged [war](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_C%C3%BAl_Dreimhne) against the king.
- _"...the Roman Catholic Church has recognized Darwinian evolution for the past 60 years. It openly rejects Intelligent Design and Young Earth Creationism saying that it 'pretends to be science.'"_ Read more [here](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/pope-francis-declares-evolution-and-big-bang-theory-are-right-and-god-isnt-a-magician-with-a-magic-9822514.html): _"The pope's statement is significant. We are the direct descendants from the Big Bang that created the universe. Evolution came from creation."_
- To then [explain Genesis](http://catholicstraightanswers.com/how-do-catholics-understand-the-creation-account-of-genesis-and-evolution/), which they have now contradicted with evolution, they say the first three chapters are never meant to be taken literally: "Since Abraham lived approximately 1850 BC, the stories of Genesis were probably preserved orally for centuries before ever being produced in written form."
- [Christian Atheist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_atheism), a real thing because a wiki exists: people who follow the teachings of Christ, but reject other supernatural stuff.
- Any book containing the book of psalms can technically be called a [psalter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psalter). Usually it requires the book of psalms to be the main book in the volume, though.
- There are many covenants ("agreements"). The one that they talked about in the old testament, was about [offerings](https://www.mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt0220.htm#22) in exchange for getting the people out of Egypt.
- The Vatican ruled that [their daily bread must contain at least some gluten](https://www.rt.com/viral/395810-gluten-free-holy-bread/), just as their wine must be made from unsoured grapes, both for reasons they can probably explain.
- The [Criterion of embarrassment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criterion_of_embarrassment) says that the author (God/Jesus) wouldn't write something embarrassing about himself, therefore the Bible's accounts are probably true.
- God didn't tell anyone to ["be fruitful and multiply"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_mandate) when the Earth had seven bilion people in it.
- The Bible never says how many wise men there were.
- Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire in AD 312, before which they had their Roman gods.
- Adam in the bible did not have the largest penis on Earth at any given time.
- "Judas Iscariot hung himself and all the guts fell out" was reconstructed from "He died by hanging" and "he fell headlong; his bowels gushed out". [They may be independent/contradictory/non-contradictory events](https://carm.org/bible-difficulties/matthew-mark/how-did-judas-die-hanging-or-falling-down).
- An upside-down cross is either [a petrine cross](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_of_Saint_Peter), i.e. Peter's cross, because he was said to have been crucified upside down, or an anti-christianity symbol, depending on context.
- Naomi is Ruth's mother in law in the bible. One of the things she said was "Do not call me Naomi, call me Mara, ..."
- Abraham and God talked often before he tried to sacrifice his son. After the event, God sent an angel down instead, "and Abraham's fortune takes a downward turn."1. [_Immaculate conception_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immaculate_Conception) refers to Mary being born sin-free, not the virgin birth of Jesus.
- The [Jesus fish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ichthys) has a special name _ichthys_, which is not special once you realise that's the Greek word for fish.
- Anabaptism is adult baptism.
- The word Christ is derived from the Greek Χριστός (Christos), which is a translation of the Hebrew משיח (Meshiakh), meaning the "anointed", and usually transliterated into English as "Messiah". It is not part of Jesus' name.
- On at least one occasion, [God told two bears to maul 42 boys to death](https://biblehub.com/2_kings/2-24.htm), so it is within reason that God wants (some) people to die.
- There are two James and two Simons apostles.
- [God definitely pulled an Anakin](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/i-killed-them-all) in 1 Samuel 15: ["Do not spare them; put to death men and women, children and infants, cattle and sheep, camels and donkeys"](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Samuel+15&version=NIV)
- Genesis 7:2 clearly says there are _seven_ pairs of clean animals.
- [The disciple whom Jesus loved](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disciple_whom_Jesus_loved) is not his wife like some moron said on Youtube. Jesus has no wife.
- The bible never said no to cannibalism. It more often said "do not murder", while never ruling out human sacrifice (Genesis 22). Since humans are neither shellfish nor hoofed, apart from superstition, the bible never really ruled out consumption of anyone who died in a way that drained out their own blood.
- God sends good and evil to us without respect to our righteousness [in the book of Job], said a [chill dude](https://np.reddit.com/r/news/comments/6yi7n0/white_christians_are_now_a_minority_of_the_us/dmoap3c/?context=3).
- "As a non religious individual I often consider the fact that a 'god' may very well exist, but considering the scope of both power and persuasion an individual of a god calibre would employ, it would be reasonable to assume that such an entity would view us as interesting and important as you would a single celled organism."
- The story of Egyptian deity [Horus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horus) shares some common traits with the story of Jesus (rising from the dead and stuff), but scholars reject the association between the two.1. _John_ (Yehohanan) means "Yahweh is Gracious"; _Jonathan_ (Yonatan) means "JHVH has given". They are not the same name (but _Johnny_ is). If you plan to name your child a variant of John, Jonathan is best left for when you have been expecting, but you are on a low sperm count.
- Amos, Isaiah (parts), Hosea, and Micah (parts) are the [first books written](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dating_the_Bible). Genesis wasn't written for another 300 years. See link for other dates.
- Jesus drank wine, but people in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints must abstain. The Quran only prohibited grape-based alcohol, but [the lawmakers interpret this is a total ban on alcohol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alcohol_intoxication#Religious_views).
- "[The 10 Plagues in Exodus are all attacks on Egyptian gods.](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/9346j9/what_is_something_most_people_dont_know_about_the/e3aw2w6/) For example, turning the Nile to blood: The Nile was a god to the Egyptians, and then turning it to blood was imagery of killing said god. Frogs were also considered gods, and when frogs were going flipping everywhere (plague 6 or something), Egyptians would be horrified to step on one of their gods. Similar to the Nile, when God cast darkness upon Egypt, it was like killing the sun (Egyptian god Ra)." - /u/Azaziah
- Cain and Abel [clearly](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-25.htm) had another brother called Seth, but no one mentions him.
- ["The language of Job stands out for its conservative spelling and for its exceptionally large number of words and forms not found elsewhere in the Bible."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_of_Job)
- Apparently Jesus could be surprised about things because of a term called [kenosis](http://christianity.stackexchange.com/questions/2615/how-could-jesus-be-surprised/4963#4963), aka self-emptying.
- In Jesus' times, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine." The act of Jesus conjuring good wine when everyone is already drunk made him "the ultimate bro". (John 2:9-10) This was his _first_ miracle.
- The Gospel of Matthew is a creative reinterpretation of Mark. [Luke, is, as well](https://jerichobrisance.files.wordpress.com/2013/10/new-testament-timeline-jerichobrisance1.png). Luke has both expanded Mark and corrected his grammar and syntax—Mark wrote poor Greek. So, really, the first four gospels were ordered Mark, Matthew, Luke, then John, all completed after the death of Jesus (obviously) and also the apostles themselves (because they don't live that long.) Matthew was not written by Matthew, Luke was not written by Luke, Mark was not written by Mark.
- Both God and Devil are each one letter away from their respective descriptor.
- In the King James version of the bible, [Isaiah 45:7](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Isaiah+45%3A7&version=KJV) says that God created evil. ["Satan doesn't really appear in the bible, and when he does, he's just doing some tempting. Now, God, on the other hand, fucks shit up."](https://www.reddit.com/r/facepalm/comments/6qo1kt/out_of_context/dkyo8ms/?context=3)
- [Janissaries](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janissaries#Revolts_and_disbandment) are Christian slaves in the Ottoman empire. They were subject to multiple types of abuse before gaining enough attention to be taken seriously.
- When Jesus said ["Destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days"](http://biblehub.com/john/2-19.htm) during his temple rampage, he meant his body (his resurrection), not the temple he was at.
- The pope's official stance on evolution and the big bang is: [he actually believes it](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/pope-would-you-accept-evolution-and-big-bang-180953166/).
- [Hallelujah](http://biblehub.com/text/psalms/115-17.htm) is a breakup of yə-hal-lū- (praise, probably) and yāh (the Lord).
- [There is only one group of people who are explicitly told in the Bible to never drink wine/alcohol, and that is the Nazirites](https://www.gotquestions.org/did-Jesus-drink-wine.html) (Numbers 6:1--4). Jesus was not a Nazirite; He was a "Nazarene," a native of the town of Nazareth (Luke 18:37). Jesus never took the Nazirite vow.
- With All Saints' Day and All Souls' Day, it is obvious that the Roman Catholic Church knows who went to heaven and who went to hell, but has no information about life after death.
- _Gospel_ doesn't just mean any book in the New Testament; a gospel is an account describing the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth.
- [The sun and the moon were created on the fourth day](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=genesis+1&version=NIV): "... God set them in the vault of the sky to give light on the earth, to govern the day and the night ..." So, for [whatever reason the authors wrote it that way](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genesis_creation_narrative#Fourth_day), and however well we can explain it by making loads of assumptions, it wasn't really well thought out.
- [Hell exists because Jesus said so](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke+12%3A5&version=NIV). On why people go to hell, [David](https://activechristianity.org/how-can-a-loving-god-send-people-to-hell) said God hates sin so he sends people who sin to hell.
- On why hell exists in the first place, [J](https://coldcasechristianity.com/writings/why-would-a-loving-god-create-a-place-like-hell/) said that, in order for something to be called "righteous", there must be an opposite thing called "wrongdoing", and God is the judge who enforces "justice": what things are right and wrong. *To him*.
- On why God allows suffering, [Jonathan](https://www.faccalgary.com/news/why-does-god-allow-pain-and-suffering) said that pain is a powerful teaching tool and God is deliberately doing it to you.
- Christianity has changed throughout history, including now. Priests have always been unwed men, but [Pope Francis wanted to change that](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-pope-synod/pope-urges-conservatives-to-be-open-to-changes-in-church-idUSKCN1WL06P?feedType=RSS&feedName=worldNews).

Commit message:

who knew a pandemic could mean so little to so many

christianity.md, after:

- The [Star of David](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_of_David) is actually called the Shield of David in Hebrew. Not that they actually think David held that shield. It's just a name.
- [Bishop Barron explains why people believe in God](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qP2rLgrBtTI): humans seek the truth, seek good, seek justice... but never can get enough of it. So there is the [argument from desire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_desire). God is the truth itself. God is the good itself. God is the justice itself. Once you find God, you don't need to keep looking anymore. Another flawed argument is called the [argument from contingency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmological_argument#Argument_from_contingency): the universe doesn't need to exist, yet here it is; therefore its existence must have a cause.
- On Jesus existing: ["Archaeological evidence of Jesus does not exist." ... "**The lack of evidence does not mean a person at the time didn’t exist.** It means that she or he, like 99.99% of the rest of the world at the time, made no impact on the archaeological record."](https://www.history.com/news/was-jesus-real-historical-evidence)
- Less than half of the [ten commandments](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ten_Commandments) are actually classified as crimes in the western hemisphere. You can say "oh my god" all day long, cheat on your wife, and even (gasp) skip Sunday school.
- The Gospel of Mark was [not written by Mark](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gospel_of_Mark#Authorship_and_genre)? "Scholars generally reject this as an attempt to link the gospel to an authoritative figure".
- The Gospel of Matthew was [not written by Matthew](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gospel_of_Matthew#Authorship_and_sources)? ["Early Christian tradition attributes the gospel to the apostle Matthew, but this is rejected by modern scholars."](https://books.google.ca/books?id=EcsQknxV-xQC&redir_esc=y)
- The [Tower of Babel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tower_of_Babel) was the tower they were building to reach heaven (Genesis 11:1–9). God saw how "close" they got to heaven and confounded their speech. "The Book of Jubilees mentions the tower's height as being ... 2484 m"... anyway, it doesn't exist.
- [Jesus was born between 6BC and 4BC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_Jesus) because the calendar sucks.
- [Pope Francis had a lung removed when he was young](https://abcnews.go.com/blogs/health/2013/03/13/new-pope-had-lung-removed-during-childhood). Infection.
- Thomas Jefferson [created a bible](https://www.christianity.com/wiki/bible/what-is-the-jefferson-bible.html) that didn't have Jesus performing miracles in it. He said he was a Christian, but thought Jesus was strictly human (a good teacher though), and that his miracles were later added into the bible "agenda-driven ... by Jesus’ followers."
- Paul never met Jesus, but behold, [Pauline Christianity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pauline_Christianity) is what most Christians follow now.
- People say there is a disciple called [Thaddeus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jude_the_Apostle) only because there are two Judases/Judi, and they needed a way to tell the difference between Judas the traitor, and Judas Thaddaeus, the other one.
- [God and Allah may not be the same entity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m0jDTFyHluw): although the two religions both say there is only one god, you automatically gain salvation from the Christian one, but not the case for the one in Islam. Allah is a bit like the old testament god, in the sense that the muslim god issues rules and laws to follow in order have a chance at earning salvation... but since they both say there is only one god, at least one side has to be wrong.
- [A drought probably did happen around when the bible said Joseph was in Egypt](https://www.bbc.co.uk/religion/religions/judaism/history/joseph.shtml) (the one in Genesis, not the one in Matthew), but this provides as much backing as other events in the bible as "Hogwarts and magic are real because we are reasonably sure Kings Cross station existed", [reddit theorised](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/dkyisw/-/f4kmlyk).
- [Saint Columba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columba) was a) known for turning water into wine, and b) responsible for ["the first copyright dispute"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8f8xP-O0vD0). In 560 AD, he copied [Finnian's Latin translation of the bible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finnian_of_Movilla), and when [the King of Ireland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diarmait_mac_Cerbaill) settled the dispute, he waged [war](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_C%C3%BAl_Dreimhne) against the king.
- _"...the Roman Catholic Church has recognized Darwinian evolution for the past 60 years. It openly rejects Intelligent Design and Young Earth Creationism saying that it 'pretends to be science.'"_ Read more [here](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/pope-francis-declares-evolution-and-big-bang-theory-are-right-and-god-isnt-a-magician-with-a-magic-9822514.html): _"The pope's statement is significant. We are the direct descendants from the Big Bang that created the universe. Evolution came from creation."_
- To then [explain Genesis](http://catholicstraightanswers.com/how-do-catholics-understand-the-creation-account-of-genesis-and-evolution/), which they have now contradicted with evolution, they say the first three chapters are never meant to be taken literally: "Since Abraham lived approximately 1850 BC, the stories of Genesis were probably preserved orally for centuries before ever being produced in written form."
- [Christian Atheist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_atheism), a real thing because a wiki exists: people who follow the teachings of Christ, but reject other supernatural stuff.
- Any book containing the book of psalms can technically be called a [psalter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psalter). Usually it requires the book of psalms to be the main book in the volume, though.
- There are many covenants ("agreements"). The one that they talked about in the old testament, was about [offerings](https://www.mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt0220.htm#22) in exchange for getting the people out of Egypt.
- The Vatican ruled that [their daily bread must contain at least some gluten](https://www.rt.com/viral/395810-gluten-free-holy-bread/), just as their wine must be made from unsoured grapes, both for reasons they can probably explain.
- The [Criterion of embarrassment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criterion_of_embarrassment) says that the author (God/Jesus) wouldn't write something embarrassing about himself, therefore the Bible's accounts are probably true.
- God didn't tell anyone to ["be fruitful and multiply"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_mandate) when the Earth had seven bilion people in it.
- The Bible never says how many wise men there were.
- Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire in AD 312, before which they had their Roman gods.
- Adam in the bible did not have the largest penis on Earth at any given time.
- "Judas Iscariot hung himself and all the guts fell out" was reconstructed from "He died by hanging" and "he fell headlong; his bowels gushed out". [They may be independent/contradictory/non-contradictory events](https://carm.org/bible-difficulties/matthew-mark/how-did-judas-die-hanging-or-falling-down).
- An upside-down cross is either [a petrine cross](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_of_Saint_Peter), i.e. Peter's cross, because he was said to have been crucified upside down, or an anti-christianity symbol, depending on context.
- Naomi is Ruth's mother in law in the bible. One of the things she said was "Do not call me Naomi, call me Mara, ..."
- Abraham and God talked often before he tried to sacrifice his son. After the event, God sent an angel down instead, "and Abraham's fortune takes a downward turn."1. [_Immaculate conception_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immaculate_Conception) refers to Mary being born sin-free, not the virgin birth of Jesus.
- The [Jesus fish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ichthys) has a special name _ichthys_, which is not special once you realise that's the Greek word for fish.
- Anabaptism is adult baptism.
- The word Christ is derived from the Greek Χριστός (Christos), which is a translation of the Hebrew משיח (Meshiakh), meaning the "anointed", and usually transliterated into English as "Messiah". It is not part of Jesus' name.
- On at least one occasion, [God told two bears to maul 42 boys to death](https://biblehub.com/2_kings/2-24.htm), so it is within reason that God wants (some) people to die.
- There are two James and two Simons apostles.
- [God definitely pulled an Anakin](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/i-killed-them-all) in 1 Samuel 15: ["Do not spare them; put to death men and women, children and infants, cattle and sheep, camels and donkeys"](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Samuel+15&version=NIV)
- Genesis 7:2 clearly says there are _seven_ pairs of clean animals.
- [The disciple whom Jesus loved](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disciple_whom_Jesus_loved) is not his wife like some moron said on Youtube. Jesus has no wife.
- The bible never said no to cannibalism. It more often said "do not murder", while never ruling out human sacrifice (Genesis 22). Since humans are neither shellfish nor hoofed, apart from superstition, the bible never really ruled out consumption of anyone who died in a way that drained out their own blood.
- God sends good and evil to us without respect to our righteousness [in the book of Job], said a [chill dude](https://np.reddit.com/r/news/comments/6yi7n0/white_christians_are_now_a_minority_of_the_us/dmoap3c/?context=3).
- "As a non religious individual I often consider the fact that a 'god' may very well exist, but considering the scope of both power and persuasion an individual of a god calibre would employ, it would be reasonable to assume that such an entity would view us as interesting and important as you would a single celled organism."
- The story of Egyptian deity [Horus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horus) shares some common traits with the story of Jesus (rising from the dead and stuff), but scholars reject the association between the two.1. _John_ (Yehohanan) means "Yahweh is Gracious"; _Jonathan_ (Yonatan) means "JHVH has given". They are not the same name (but _Johnny_ is). If you plan to name your child a variant of John, Jonathan is best left for when you have been expecting, but you are on a low sperm count.
- Amos, Isaiah (parts), Hosea, and Micah (parts) are the [first books written](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dating_the_Bible). Genesis wasn't written for another 300 years. See link for other dates.
- Jesus drank wine, but people in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints must abstain. The Quran only prohibited grape-based alcohol, but [the lawmakers interpret this is a total ban on alcohol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alcohol_intoxication#Religious_views).
- "[The 10 Plagues in Exodus are all attacks on Egyptian gods.](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/9346j9/what_is_something_most_people_dont_know_about_the/e3aw2w6/) For example, turning the Nile to blood: The Nile was a god to the Egyptians, and then turning it to blood was imagery of killing said god. Frogs were also considered gods, and when frogs were going flipping everywhere (plague 6 or something), Egyptians would be horrified to step on one of their gods. Similar to the Nile, when God cast darkness upon Egypt, it was like killing the sun (Egyptian god Ra)." - /u/Azaziah
- Cain and Abel [clearly](https://biblehub.com/genesis/4-25.htm) had another brother called Seth, but no one mentions him.
- ["The language of Job stands out for its conservative spelling and for its exceptionally large number of words and forms not found elsewhere in the Bible."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_of_Job)
- Apparently Jesus could be surprised about things because of a term called [kenosis](http://christianity.stackexchange.com/questions/2615/how-could-jesus-be-surprised/4963#4963), aka self-emptying.
- In Jesus' times, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine." The act of Jesus conjuring good wine when everyone is already drunk made him "the ultimate bro". (John 2:9-10) This was his _first_ miracle.
- The Gospel of Matthew is a creative reinterpretation of Mark. [Luke, is, as well](https://jerichobrisance.files.wordpress.com/2013/10/new-testament-timeline-jerichobrisance1.png). Luke has both expanded Mark and corrected his grammar and syntax—Mark wrote poor Greek. So, really, the first four gospels were ordered Mark, Matthew, Luke, then John, all completed after the death of Jesus (obviously) and also the apostles themselves (because they don't live that long.) Matthew was not written by Matthew, Luke was not written by Luke, Mark was not written by Mark.
- Both God and Devil are each one letter away from their respective descriptor.
- In the King James version of the bible, [Isaiah 45:7](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Isaiah+45%3A7&version=KJV) says that God created evil. ["Satan doesn't really appear in the bible, and when he does, he's just doing some tempting. Now, God, on the other hand, fucks shit up."](https://www.reddit.com/r/facepalm/comments/6qo1kt/out_of_context/dkyo8ms/?context=3)
- [Janissaries](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janissaries#Revolts_and_disbandment) are Christian slaves in the Ottoman empire. They were subject to multiple types of abuse before gaining enough attention to be taken seriously.
- When Jesus said ["Destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days"](http://biblehub.com/john/2-19.htm) during his temple rampage, he meant his body (his resurrection), not the temple he was at.
- The pope's official stance on evolution and the big bang is: [he actually believes it](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/pope-would-you-accept-evolution-and-big-bang-180953166/).
- [Hallelujah](http://biblehub.com/text/psalms/115-17.htm) is a breakup of yə-hal-lū- (praise, probably) and yāh (the Lord).
- [There is only one group of people who are explicitly told in the Bible to never drink wine/alcohol, and that is the Nazirites](https://www.gotquestions.org/did-Jesus-drink-wine.html) (Numbers 6:1--4). Jesus was not a Nazirite; He was a "Nazarene," a native of the town of Nazareth (Luke 18:37). Jesus never took the Nazirite vow.
- With All Saints' Day and All Souls' Day, it is obvious that the Roman Catholic Church knows who went to heaven and who went to hell, but has no information about life after death.
- _Gospel_ doesn't just mean any book in the New Testament; a gospel is an account describing the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth.
- [The sun and the moon were created on the fourth day](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=genesis+1&version=NIV): "... God set them in the vault of the sky to give light on the earth, to govern the day and the night ..." So, for [whatever reason the authors wrote it that way](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genesis_creation_narrative#Fourth_day), and however well we can explain it by making loads of assumptions, it wasn't really well thought out.
- [Hell exists because Jesus said so](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Luke+12%3A5&version=NIV). On why people go to hell, [David](https://activechristianity.org/how-can-a-loving-god-send-people-to-hell) said God hates sin so he sends people who sin to hell.
- On why hell exists in the first place, [J](https://coldcasechristianity.com/writings/why-would-a-loving-god-create-a-place-like-hell/) said that, in order for something to be called "righteous", there must be an opposite thing called "wrongdoing", and God is the judge who enforces "justice": what things are right and wrong. *To him*.
- On why God allows suffering, [Jonathan](https://www.faccalgary.com/news/why-does-god-allow-pain-and-suffering) said that pain is a powerful teaching tool and God is deliberately doing it to you.
- Christianity has changed throughout history, including now. Priests have always been unwed men, but [Pope Francis wanted to change that](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-pope-synod/pope-urges-conservatives-to-be-open-to-changes-in-church-idUSKCN1WL06P?feedType=RSS&feedName=worldNews).
