driving.md, before:

![](http://i.imgur.com/IGedhKP.jpg)

> The "Stop" being the button to start it, is, with the best will in the world, a bit misleading. - James May

- You [can](https://www.kitchener.ca/en/getting-around/bikeway-types.aspx#) pass a cyclist on a sharrowed-lane. It is legal for a cyclist to take up the whole lane, but also legal for a driver to pass a cyclist if they choose not to do so, as long as you give them 1 metre of space. Since a cyclist can always take up the whole lane --- or [do anything they want, for that matter](https://driving.ca/auto-news/news/top-20-rules-of-the-road-for-drivers-and-cyclists) --- and drivers must always give them 1 metre of space, [sharrows don't mean anything](https://old.reddit.com/r/waterloo/comments/8r1r6s/sharrows_a_failed_cycling_experiment_in_the_region/e0nxojq/).
- As of 2011, [you can](https://www.yorkregion.com/news-story/1423985-police-debunk-traffic-myths/): change lanes in an intersection (the illegal aspect is only from changing lanes unsafely), turn into the middle/center lane/slot for merging (which may contradict something else in this repo), [cross a solid WHITE line on a highway to pass](https://derekwilsonlaw.ca/5-surprising-ontario-traffic-laws-that-you-might-not-know-about/) (it's there to tell you if it's safe, not be your mother), and [drive barefoot](https://www.wheels.ca/top-ten/10-common-driving-misconceptions/).
- Modern (light-free) roundabouts [reduce accidents by 38%](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqcyRxZJCXc), but also, fatal accidents by 90%. Despite everyone having to slow down somewhat, the carbon footprint of roundabouts is still some 20% lower than traditional intersections, where you have a 50/50 chance of stopping completely.
- [Transport Canada says](https://bc.ctvnews.ca/mobile/an-expired-car-seat-could-be-putting-your-child-at-risk-1.2817169) expiring child car seats every 6 years is not a ploy to make you keep buying them: "frequent use or sunlight could weaken the plastic. Food, cleaners, drinks and other materials spilled on the car seat could also prevent it from working safely." The expiry is put on the certification rather than the materials, i.e. the seat is no longer certified for use, not that the plastic goes bad in six years. Fine. But do you know what they don't tell you to replace every six years? Car seats. Like, adult car seats.
- Gandhi said [do not underinflate your winter tires to get better traction](https://www.theweathernetwork.com/ca/news/article/winter-winter-tire-myths-what-you-need-to-know-for-safer-driving). Darren said you should try it anyway if you need to (e.g. you're stuck).
- The average driver (in the US?) will have [a car accident every 18 years](https://cederberglaw.com/how-many-car-accidents-will-i-have-in-my-lifetime/), or 4 in their lifetime. You are *way* above average if you drive at night, during rush hour, talk on the phone, or if you are me.
- Road traffic detectors are [induction loops underneath the asphalt](https://auto.howstuffworks.com/car-driving-safety/safety-regulatory-devices/how-does-a-traffic-light-detect-that-a-car-has-pulled-up-and-is-waiting-for-the-light-to-change.htm). Human bodies do not trick the system.
- The Geneva Convention says [a country must have a uniform driving direction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JoYNhX15w4k). This causes remote territories to have the same driving direction, even if that territory is surrounded by other places that drive on the opposite side.
- If a car is tailgating you, you need double the braking distance in front of you, so you have enough time to slowly brake when _that_ car brakes, so that the tailgater doesn't hit you.
- You need to put your foot on the brake before you can start a car with a push button.
- [Service roads](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frontage_road) are roads running parallel to highways. Living on a service road is often a poor idea, because service roads can only go one way.
- Before the second world war, [Europe had 50:50 mixed opinions about which side of the road to drive on](https://i.redd.it/zhaj9kiw5ha11.png), including driving on either side being an option in Italy.
- [You can't do a U-turn at an intersection in Alberta](https://globalnews.ca/news/974813/road-rules-are-u-turns-allowed/) (unless it says you can).
- [Automated parking tickets might not need to be paid. Check your local laws before paying up.](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/6ispco/a_controversial_bill_passed_by_a_house_committee/)
- Cars in the left lane turning left during the brief period when both traffic lights are red, known as the [Pittsburgh left](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pittsburgh_left), is a terrible idea, even in Pittsburgh.
- To kill yourself by car these days (haha yes), the best chance you have is [drive into the right end of a truck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bT3G-kcKN70), where even Canadian standards will fail you.
- Cars turning left at an intersection have no right of way, even [compared to cars trying to turn right into a different lane.](https://www.insurancehotline.com/understanding-right-of-way-common-scenarios/)
- In the event of a blowout, you aren't supposed to brake, as it forces you to fishtail.
- Hold your steering wheel at 10 and 2 [only if you don't have power steering.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q9fu3SBm-PU)
- It is not legal (in many jurisdictions) to turn left into a left turn lane (also called a suicide lane). The lane is only for turning left from it.
- The [optimal driving speeds](http://eartheasy.com/move_fuel_efficient_driving.html) are 45km/h and 90km/h. Avoid anything under 40, as well as 60.
- Understeer: the front wheels are fully turned, but the car is still going forward.
- Oversteer: the front wheels are turning fine, but the back is steering too much.
- The body should not swivel when performing the shoulder check. This puts the car at risk of drifting.
- [People who live in trucks and vans](https://www.reddit.com/r/vandwellers/comments/5mk4vb/consuming_alcohol/) and drink may be charged with DUI, even if they have no intention of going anywhere.
- ["Cannot interpret human traffic signals"](http://www.autoinsurancecenter.com/top-20-pros-and-cons-associated-with-self-driving-cars.htm) is one of the cons mentioned against self driving technology.
- Flashing yellow at a two-or-four-way-stop means ["disregard me, I mean nothing"](http://www.mto.gov.on.ca/english/dandv/driver/handbook/section3.2.12.shtml). On the other hand, flashing red means a mandatory stop.
- [It is not illegal to drive barefoot](http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-drive/culture/commuting/strange-canadian-driving-laws-that-surprised-us-the-most-in-2015/article27951066/), but since it has less grip than shoes, you probably shouldn't.
- "We have an anti-evasion law around here which makes it illegal for you to knowingly and intentionally go below the speed limit in order to avoid the possibility of going over and getting a ticket. The penalty is 30 days in jail vs the \$100 speeding ticket. Since you admitted to intentionally going under the speed limit, I'm placing you under arrest."
- The reasoning behind [colors for traffic lights] is because Green represents life flourishing and going. Red was a sign of life stopped and yellow was a caution that would mean red is coming.
- [If a car in the lane next to you is accelerating so that you can squeeze into the gap behind it, you may be tempted to do so. Don't. Modeling shows that "fast" lane changes will actually increase your time in the traffic jam.](https://www.wikihow.com/Make-Time-Spent-Commuting-by-Car-Efficient)
- [Removing a stop sign](https://www.nytimes.com/1997/06/21/us/3-are-sentenced-to-15-years-in-fatal-stop-sign-prank.html) can get you into jail for 15 years.
- The [zipper merge](http://www.dot.state.mn.us/zippermerge/) reduces queuing traffic by knowing merging should be done at the last minute. But apparently the zipper merge doesn't work because, and I quote, "only takes one dick to stop a zipper."
- Emergency vehicles can pass a schoolbus only if the bus'es stop signs are folded in.

Commit message:

You know what they say about drivers

driving.md, after:

![](http://i.imgur.com/IGedhKP.jpg)

> The "Stop" being the button to start it, is, with the best will in the world, a bit misleading. - James May

- A typical small car uses fuel at [0.172 mL/s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dFImHhNwbJo) while idling. The same engine may use 1.2 mL to start up, which makes turning off the engine beneficial (if wear and tear is negligible and you don't need your engine to do anything while idling, like for heat and AC) at... 7 seconds. Start-stop systems save about 4 ~ 8% of fuel if all you drive is city roads, which means they generally aren't worth it given the ludicrous cost of a trim that includes a start-stop engine.
- You [can](https://www.kitchener.ca/en/getting-around/bikeway-types.aspx#) pass a cyclist on a sharrowed-lane. It is legal for a cyclist to take up the whole lane, but also legal for a driver to pass a cyclist if they choose not to do so, as long as you give them 1 metre of space. Since a cyclist can always take up the whole lane --- or [do anything they want, for that matter](https://driving.ca/auto-news/news/top-20-rules-of-the-road-for-drivers-and-cyclists) --- and drivers must always give them 1 metre of space, [sharrows don't mean anything](https://old.reddit.com/r/waterloo/comments/8r1r6s/sharrows_a_failed_cycling_experiment_in_the_region/e0nxojq/).
- As of 2011, [you can](https://www.yorkregion.com/news-story/1423985-police-debunk-traffic-myths/): change lanes in an intersection (the illegal aspect is only from changing lanes unsafely), turn into the middle/center lane/slot for merging (which may contradict something else in this repo), [cross a solid WHITE line on a highway to pass](https://derekwilsonlaw.ca/5-surprising-ontario-traffic-laws-that-you-might-not-know-about/) (it's there to tell you if it's safe, not be your mother), and [drive barefoot](https://www.wheels.ca/top-ten/10-common-driving-misconceptions/).
- Modern (light-free) roundabouts [reduce accidents by 38%](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqcyRxZJCXc), but also, fatal accidents by 90%. Despite everyone having to slow down somewhat, the carbon footprint of roundabouts is still some 20% lower than traditional intersections, where you have a 50/50 chance of stopping completely.
- [Transport Canada says](https://bc.ctvnews.ca/mobile/an-expired-car-seat-could-be-putting-your-child-at-risk-1.2817169) expiring child car seats every 6 years is not a ploy to make you keep buying them: "frequent use or sunlight could weaken the plastic. Food, cleaners, drinks and other materials spilled on the car seat could also prevent it from working safely." The expiry is put on the certification rather than the materials, i.e. the seat is no longer certified for use, not that the plastic goes bad in six years. Fine. But do you know what they don't tell you to replace every six years? Car seats. Like, adult car seats.
- Gandhi said [do not underinflate your winter tires to get better traction](https://www.theweathernetwork.com/ca/news/article/winter-winter-tire-myths-what-you-need-to-know-for-safer-driving). Darren said you should try it anyway if you need to (e.g. you're stuck).
- The average driver (in the US?) will have [a car accident every 18 years](https://cederberglaw.com/how-many-car-accidents-will-i-have-in-my-lifetime/), or 4 in their lifetime. You are *way* above average if you drive at night, during rush hour, talk on the phone, or if you are me.
- Road traffic detectors are [induction loops underneath the asphalt](https://auto.howstuffworks.com/car-driving-safety/safety-regulatory-devices/how-does-a-traffic-light-detect-that-a-car-has-pulled-up-and-is-waiting-for-the-light-to-change.htm). Human bodies do not trick the system.
- The Geneva Convention says [a country must have a uniform driving direction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JoYNhX15w4k). This causes remote territories to have the same driving direction, even if that territory is surrounded by other places that drive on the opposite side.
- If a car is tailgating you, you need double the braking distance in front of you, so you have enough time to slowly brake when _that_ car brakes, so that the tailgater doesn't hit you.
- You need to put your foot on the brake before you can start a car with a push button.
- [Service roads](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frontage_road) are roads running parallel to highways. Living on a service road is often a poor idea, because service roads can only go one way.
- Before the second world war, [Europe had 50:50 mixed opinions about which side of the road to drive on](https://i.redd.it/zhaj9kiw5ha11.png), including driving on either side being an option in Italy.
- [You can't do a U-turn at an intersection in Alberta](https://globalnews.ca/news/974813/road-rules-are-u-turns-allowed/) (unless it says you can).
- [Automated parking tickets might not need to be paid. Check your local laws before paying up.](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/6ispco/a_controversial_bill_passed_by_a_house_committee/)
- Cars in the left lane turning left during the brief period when both traffic lights are red, known as the [Pittsburgh left](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pittsburgh_left), is a terrible idea, even in Pittsburgh.
- To kill yourself by car these days (haha yes), the best chance you have is [drive into the right end of a truck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bT3G-kcKN70), where even Canadian standards will fail you.
- Cars turning left at an intersection have no right of way, even [compared to cars trying to turn right into a different lane.](https://www.insurancehotline.com/understanding-right-of-way-common-scenarios/)
- In the event of a blowout, you aren't supposed to brake, as it forces you to fishtail.
- Hold your steering wheel at 10 and 2 [only if you don't have power steering.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q9fu3SBm-PU)
- It is not legal (in many jurisdictions) to turn left into a left turn lane (also called a suicide lane). The lane is only for turning left from it.
- The [optimal driving speeds](http://eartheasy.com/move_fuel_efficient_driving.html) are 45km/h and 90km/h. Avoid anything under 40, as well as 60.
- Understeer: the front wheels are fully turned, but the car is still going forward.
- Oversteer: the front wheels are turning fine, but the back is steering too much.
- The body should not swivel when performing the shoulder check. This puts the car at risk of drifting.
- [People who live in trucks and vans](https://www.reddit.com/r/vandwellers/comments/5mk4vb/consuming_alcohol/) and drink may be charged with DUI, even if they have no intention of going anywhere.
- ["Cannot interpret human traffic signals"](http://www.autoinsurancecenter.com/top-20-pros-and-cons-associated-with-self-driving-cars.htm) is one of the cons mentioned against self driving technology.
- Flashing yellow at a two-or-four-way-stop means ["disregard me, I mean nothing"](http://www.mto.gov.on.ca/english/dandv/driver/handbook/section3.2.12.shtml). On the other hand, flashing red means a mandatory stop.
- [It is not illegal to drive barefoot](http://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-drive/culture/commuting/strange-canadian-driving-laws-that-surprised-us-the-most-in-2015/article27951066/), but since it has less grip than shoes, you probably shouldn't.
- "We have an anti-evasion law around here which makes it illegal for you to knowingly and intentionally go below the speed limit in order to avoid the possibility of going over and getting a ticket. The penalty is 30 days in jail vs the \$100 speeding ticket. Since you admitted to intentionally going under the speed limit, I'm placing you under arrest."
- The reasoning behind [colors for traffic lights] is because Green represents life flourishing and going. Red was a sign of life stopped and yellow was a caution that would mean red is coming.
- [If a car in the lane next to you is accelerating so that you can squeeze into the gap behind it, you may be tempted to do so. Don't. Modeling shows that "fast" lane changes will actually increase your time in the traffic jam.](https://www.wikihow.com/Make-Time-Spent-Commuting-by-Car-Efficient)
- [Removing a stop sign](https://www.nytimes.com/1997/06/21/us/3-are-sentenced-to-15-years-in-fatal-stop-sign-prank.html) can get you into jail for 15 years.
- The [zipper merge](http://www.dot.state.mn.us/zippermerge/) reduces queuing traffic by knowing merging should be done at the last minute. But apparently the zipper merge doesn't work because, and I quote, "only takes one dick to stop a zipper."
- Emergency vehicles can pass a schoolbus only if the bus'es stop signs are folded in.
