europe.md, before:

- The Soviet story about [Vladmir Komarov, who went on a suicide space mission so his friend won't die](https://old.reddit.com/r/Damnthatsinteresting/comments/t8y8be/remains_of_astronaut_vladmir_komarov_he_knew_he/hzs4khx/), is completely false. The Soviet Union wanted the spaceship to launch ahead of the 50th anniversary of the October revolution, with test flights performed in haste. No one thought he was going to die.
- Italy shares a border with Slovenia.
- The RB in [RB Leipzig](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RB_Leipzig) the Fußballverein is _Rasenballsport_, lit. "lawn ball sport", is a clever attempt to bypass the [DFB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_Football_Association)'s licensing limitation that the company name "Red Bull" cannot be part of the team name.
- The [Turkish Lira inflation crisis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkish_lira#2018-present_currency_crisis) is... [deliberate](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/nov/24/erdogan-gambles-on-economy-amid-protests-and-rocketing-inflation)?
- France was part of the [Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vienna_Convention_on_Road_Signs_and_Signals), where stop signs said STOP. Quebec, on the other hand, did not get the memo, so their stop signs say ["ARRÊT"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Road_signs_in_Canada).
- The [Spanish national anthem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcha_Real) does not have lyrics.
- ["G7"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_of_Seven) appears to be Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK, and the US, plus two guest spots for the EU.
- Since 2006, Russia started [taxing alcohol more, classifying beer as alcohol, requiring registration for stores to sell alcohol, controlling the time of day alcohol can be bought, banning alcohol advertising, and fining public drinking](https://www.addictioncenter.com/news/2019/10/alcohol-consumption-russia-decline/). Drinking dropped by almost half. 25% of men are no longer heavy drinkers.
- Despite everyone's GDP going up, [European countries have consistently been beaten by the US in terms of GDP per capita](https://johnhcochrane.blogspot.com/2021/03/the-puzzle-of-europe.html).
- [Staedtler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staedtler) the stationery brand originated in the **1600s** when a man named Friedrich Staedtler started making pencils. The actual company was founded in 1835.
- No one ever notices [that big cathedral behind the leaning tower of Pisa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pisa_Cathedral).
- You can remember where Czech Republic and Slovak Republic are by thinking: these were [the two countries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Czechoslovakia) whose land was right up Germany's backend, before [the third Reich decided to absorb them](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_occupation_of_Czechoslovakia).
- [Nazi-time meth came in chocolate bar form](https://time.com/5752114/nazi-military-drugs/) too.
- ["Visiting a former concentration camp is mandatory for every future police officer in Berlin. It is one of the ways in which policing was fundamentally overhauled in Germany after World War II. Cadets are taught in unsparing detail about the shameful legacy of policing under the Nazis — and how it informs the mission and institution of policing today."](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/world/europe/germany-police.html) In Germany, the police was deliberately demilitarised, and the secret state police (SS, the Nazi version of FBI) no longer exists.
- The tell the difference between the [two major accents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k3AgxhGU4JU) (Scottish and Irish), see how up and down their pitch goes (the Scots don't sing). [Scottish Rs are also rolled but the Irish one is not](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-an-Irish-accent-and-a-Scottish-accent), making it sound more American than French.
- Sweden and Norway were [united as a single kingdom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_between_Sweden_and_Norway) for a while.
- Portugal is a socialist country that votes, in the sense that [the dominant parties are all socialist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politics_of_Portugal).
- [Handegg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handegg), not related to what Americans call football, is a village in [Guttannen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guttannen), (the middle of) Switzerland.
- Spain, Belgium, and Denmark also have monarchs.
- You can [buy an EU citizenship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malta) for 650k euros from Malta.
- Icelandic witchcraft believed that [wearing a man's skin as pants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A1br%C3%B3k) (*Nábrók*, corpse trousers) will bring endless money. But only if you get permission from that man before he dies, and if you steal a coin from his widow and put it inside his scrotum.
- ["If you think you are compliant with the GDPR but can't show how, then you're not GDPR compliant."](https://gdpr.eu/what-is-gdpr/)
- Germany has more prostitutes per capita than any other country in Europe. [1.2 men visit German prostitutes everyday](http://s.telegraph.co.uk/graphics/projects/welcome-to-paradise/).
- Americans are less "diverse" than Europeans, because while a European can have "German, French, and Italian ancestry", an American does not typically claim to have "Idaoan, Floridan, and Pennsylvanian ancestry".
- Istanbul is Europe's largest city. Then Moscow, Paris, London, Madrid.
- In Europe, if you ask for "water", bottled water will be served by default, costing more than other beverages. Always ask for "tap water", or, preferably, "tap water, out of a tap, in a glass, not a bottle, the free kind, the kind I can get for zero Euros".
- Switzerland is _very, very expensive_, even by European standards.
- The EU has strict definitions of ["free range"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_range#European_Union), particularly the density of poultry is essentially what is seen as free range. In the US, that term is useless.
- The [president of Germany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Germany) signs laws and stuff, and holds "reserve powers" to allow him to enact laws without the [Bundestag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundestag), parliament equivalent.
- The Cuckoo clock is a German thing. More specifically, a Southwestern Germany thing.
- [SAP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SAP_SE) is German. They have one employee for every five customers.
- By EU law, [Black Forest Ham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Forest_ham) must come from Black Forest, Germany. It is also dry-cured (think prosciutto), contains 20% fat, and is almost never circular (but more bacon-shaped). So, the black forest ham you have been eating is not black forest ham.
- The Great Dane is called "German Dog" in both German and French. The breed came from Greece.
- [Norway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norway) aka North Way is north of Suðrvegr (South Way, aka Germany).
- There is a German saying "I'm too poor to buy cheap" *Ich bin zu arm, um billig zu kaufen*
- [Germany normally doesn't tolerate dual citizenship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_nationality_law#Dual_citizenship), except for the EU, Switzerland, and countries of origin do not allow them to renounce their citizenship, like Iran, Algeria, and Syria. Also, TIL some countries don't let you renounce your citizenship.
- The "coat of arms of [the German Emperor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_I,_German_Emperor) with crest" of 1871 had a shocking [**58**](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Wappen_Deutsches_Reich_-_Wappen_des_Kaisers_mit_Helmkleinod.svg) black eagles on it.
- [Speibecken](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speibecken) are German Oktoberfest puke sinks. They are not only used during Oktoberfest. Speibecken conveniently translates on Google to ~~"dining room"~~spittoon (spit + pool).
- Louis XIV (or was it XIII?) was rumoured to have taken only three baths in his life.
- [_Wiener Schnitzel_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiener_Schnitzel) is a protected term for Viennese schnitzel made with veal (calves). _Vienna Schnitzel_ can be made from anything.
- There is [a hotel, a grocery store, and a souvenir shop](https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Chernobyl) in Chernobyl.
- _Baguettes_ can translate to chopsticks. So, baguettes might just mean tiny sticks (bâton being the big stick). Interestingly, [it is the dough, not the shape](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baguette), that is defined in French law.
- What's right in between England, France, and Germany? Belgium. Or the Netherlands. To immigrate to the Netherlands as a skilled worker, you need to [find an eligible sponsor company](https://ind.nl/en/Documents/Public_Register_Regular_Labour_and_Highly_Skilled_Migrants.pdf), which are not all companies there, but are quite long (127 pages).
- [Oktoberfest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oktoberfest) starts in September.
- [Bulgaria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulgaria) is the [most corrupt country in europe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corruption_in_Bulgaria).
- [Superfamily](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superfamily_%28band%29) was known as Norway's most well-educated and acedemic band. _"At one point, every member of the band had Master's degrees, or were in the progress of getting one. Vocalist Steven Wilson holds a Ph.D. in chemistry. He defended his thesis, On-line multidimensional LC-techniques. Determinations of known and unknown compounds in limited and complex samples, in December 2007."_
- [Germans dodge draft](https://www.expath.de/what-do-germans-mean-when-they-say-es-zieht/) (the kind involving cold air).
- Switzerland didn't join the UN until 2002, perhaps in fear that joining something will get them involved in something that isn't politically neutral. Its official invasion defence strategy is the [national redoubt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Redoubt_%28Switzerland%29); "the idea was to make clear to [neighbouring countries] that an invasion would have a high cost", which was true when Nazi Germany considered it.
- "Portugal" came from Latin [*Portus Cale*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portugal#Etymology), or "the port of Cale", where Cale was supposedly [some Celtic goddess](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cailleach) (according to a theory, anyway).
- [Italians sell wet snails](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heliciculture#/media/File:Snails-Italy.jpg) like Chinese people sell dried seafood.
- When GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) came around, [Facebook just moved its users from Facebook Ireland to Facebook US, where EU laws don't apply](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/apr/19/facebook-moves-15bn-users-out-of-reach-of-new-european-privacy-law).
- [Germany has the second highest gun ownership per capita](http://www.gunpolicy.org/firearms/compare/194/number_of_privately_owned_firearms/227,228,67,68,69,70,71,190,191,192,195,196,197,30,218,31,219,35) but you don't see them shooting each other all the time.
- The [Nordic socioeconomic model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nordic_model) sets itself apart by having universal welfare, paid for by taxes, creating a [social safety net](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_safety_net).

Commit message:

Boy have I other things in life to take care of first

europe.md, after:

- The lights on the Eiffel Tower were installed in 1985, and is considered artistic work. As such, [it is not strictly legal to take a picture of the tower at night for commercial use](https://theculturetrip.com/europe/france/paris/articles/why-its-illegal-to-take-pictures-of-the-eiffel-tower-at-night/) (i.e. if anyone cares to arrest you for it, they can). Not that anyone has ever gotten into trouble for it.
- The Soviet story about [Vladmir Komarov, who went on a suicide space mission so his friend won't die](https://old.reddit.com/r/Damnthatsinteresting/comments/t8y8be/remains_of_astronaut_vladmir_komarov_he_knew_he/hzs4khx/), is completely false. The Soviet Union wanted the spaceship to launch ahead of the 50th anniversary of the October revolution, with test flights performed in haste. No one thought he was going to die.
- Italy shares a border with Slovenia.
- The RB in [RB Leipzig](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RB_Leipzig) the Fußballverein is _Rasenballsport_, lit. "lawn ball sport", is a clever attempt to bypass the [DFB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_Football_Association)'s licensing limitation that the company name "Red Bull" cannot be part of the team name.
- The [Turkish Lira inflation crisis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkish_lira#2018-present_currency_crisis) is... [deliberate](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/nov/24/erdogan-gambles-on-economy-amid-protests-and-rocketing-inflation)?
- France was part of the [Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vienna_Convention_on_Road_Signs_and_Signals), where stop signs said STOP. Quebec, on the other hand, did not get the memo, so their stop signs say ["ARRÊT"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Road_signs_in_Canada).
- The [Spanish national anthem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcha_Real) does not have lyrics.
- ["G7"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_of_Seven) appears to be Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK, and the US, plus two guest spots for the EU.
- Since 2006, Russia started [taxing alcohol more, classifying beer as alcohol, requiring registration for stores to sell alcohol, controlling the time of day alcohol can be bought, banning alcohol advertising, and fining public drinking](https://www.addictioncenter.com/news/2019/10/alcohol-consumption-russia-decline/). Drinking dropped by almost half. 25% of men are no longer heavy drinkers.
- Despite everyone's GDP going up, [European countries have consistently been beaten by the US in terms of GDP per capita](https://johnhcochrane.blogspot.com/2021/03/the-puzzle-of-europe.html).
- [Staedtler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staedtler) the stationery brand originated in the **1600s** when a man named Friedrich Staedtler started making pencils. The actual company was founded in 1835.
- No one ever notices [that big cathedral behind the leaning tower of Pisa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pisa_Cathedral).
- You can remember where Czech Republic and Slovak Republic are by thinking: these were [the two countries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Czechoslovakia) whose land was right up Germany's backend, before [the third Reich decided to absorb them](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_occupation_of_Czechoslovakia).
- [Nazi-time meth came in chocolate bar form](https://time.com/5752114/nazi-military-drugs/) too.
- ["Visiting a former concentration camp is mandatory for every future police officer in Berlin. It is one of the ways in which policing was fundamentally overhauled in Germany after World War II. Cadets are taught in unsparing detail about the shameful legacy of policing under the Nazis — and how it informs the mission and institution of policing today."](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/world/europe/germany-police.html) In Germany, the police was deliberately demilitarised, and the secret state police (SS, the Nazi version of FBI) no longer exists.
- The tell the difference between the [two major accents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k3AgxhGU4JU) (Scottish and Irish), see how up and down their pitch goes (the Scots don't sing). [Scottish Rs are also rolled but the Irish one is not](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-an-Irish-accent-and-a-Scottish-accent), making it sound more American than French.
- Sweden and Norway were [united as a single kingdom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_between_Sweden_and_Norway) for a while.
- Portugal is a socialist country that votes, in the sense that [the dominant parties are all socialist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Politics_of_Portugal).
- [Handegg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Handegg), not related to what Americans call football, is a village in [Guttannen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guttannen), (the middle of) Switzerland.
- Spain, Belgium, and Denmark also have monarchs.
- You can [buy an EU citizenship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malta) for 650k euros from Malta.
- Icelandic witchcraft believed that [wearing a man's skin as pants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%C3%A1br%C3%B3k) (*Nábrók*, corpse trousers) will bring endless money. But only if you get permission from that man before he dies, and if you steal a coin from his widow and put it inside his scrotum.
- ["If you think you are compliant with the GDPR but can't show how, then you're not GDPR compliant."](https://gdpr.eu/what-is-gdpr/)
- Germany has more prostitutes per capita than any other country in Europe. [1.2 men visit German prostitutes everyday](http://s.telegraph.co.uk/graphics/projects/welcome-to-paradise/).
- Americans are less "diverse" than Europeans, because while a European can have "German, French, and Italian ancestry", an American does not typically claim to have "Idaoan, Floridan, and Pennsylvanian ancestry".
- Istanbul is Europe's largest city. Then Moscow, Paris, London, Madrid.
- In Europe, if you ask for "water", bottled water will be served by default, costing more than other beverages. Always ask for "tap water", or, preferably, "tap water, out of a tap, in a glass, not a bottle, the free kind, the kind I can get for zero Euros".
- Switzerland is _very, very expensive_, even by European standards.
- The EU has strict definitions of ["free range"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_range#European_Union), particularly the density of poultry is essentially what is seen as free range. In the US, that term is useless.
- The [president of Germany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_Germany) signs laws and stuff, and holds "reserve powers" to allow him to enact laws without the [Bundestag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundestag), parliament equivalent.
- The Cuckoo clock is a German thing. More specifically, a Southwestern Germany thing.
- [SAP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SAP_SE) is German. They have one employee for every five customers.
- By EU law, [Black Forest Ham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Forest_ham) must come from Black Forest, Germany. It is also dry-cured (think prosciutto), contains 20% fat, and is almost never circular (but more bacon-shaped). So, the black forest ham you have been eating is not black forest ham.
- The Great Dane is called "German Dog" in both German and French. The breed came from Greece.
- [Norway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norway) aka North Way is north of Suðrvegr (South Way, aka Germany).
- There is a German saying "I'm too poor to buy cheap" *Ich bin zu arm, um billig zu kaufen*
- [Germany normally doesn't tolerate dual citizenship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_nationality_law#Dual_citizenship), except for the EU, Switzerland, and countries of origin do not allow them to renounce their citizenship, like Iran, Algeria, and Syria. Also, TIL some countries don't let you renounce your citizenship.
- The "coat of arms of [the German Emperor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_I,_German_Emperor) with crest" of 1871 had a shocking [**58**](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d6/Wappen_Deutsches_Reich_-_Wappen_des_Kaisers_mit_Helmkleinod.svg) black eagles on it.
- [Speibecken](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speibecken) are German Oktoberfest puke sinks. They are not only used during Oktoberfest. Speibecken conveniently translates on Google to ~~"dining room"~~spittoon (spit + pool).
- Louis XIV (or was it XIII?) was rumoured to have taken only three baths in his life.
- [_Wiener Schnitzel_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiener_Schnitzel) is a protected term for Viennese schnitzel made with veal (calves). _Vienna Schnitzel_ can be made from anything.
- There is [a hotel, a grocery store, and a souvenir shop](https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Chernobyl) in Chernobyl.
- _Baguettes_ can translate to chopsticks. So, baguettes might just mean tiny sticks (bâton being the big stick). Interestingly, [it is the dough, not the shape](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baguette), that is defined in French law.
- What's right in between England, France, and Germany? Belgium. Or the Netherlands. To immigrate to the Netherlands as a skilled worker, you need to [find an eligible sponsor company](https://ind.nl/en/Documents/Public_Register_Regular_Labour_and_Highly_Skilled_Migrants.pdf), which are not all companies there, but are quite long (127 pages).
- [Oktoberfest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oktoberfest) starts in September.
- [Bulgaria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulgaria) is the [most corrupt country in europe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corruption_in_Bulgaria).
- [Superfamily](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superfamily_%28band%29) was known as Norway's most well-educated and acedemic band. _"At one point, every member of the band had Master's degrees, or were in the progress of getting one. Vocalist Steven Wilson holds a Ph.D. in chemistry. He defended his thesis, On-line multidimensional LC-techniques. Determinations of known and unknown compounds in limited and complex samples, in December 2007."_
- [Germans dodge draft](https://www.expath.de/what-do-germans-mean-when-they-say-es-zieht/) (the kind involving cold air).
- Switzerland didn't join the UN until 2002, perhaps in fear that joining something will get them involved in something that isn't politically neutral. Its official invasion defence strategy is the [national redoubt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Redoubt_%28Switzerland%29); "the idea was to make clear to [neighbouring countries] that an invasion would have a high cost", which was true when Nazi Germany considered it.
- "Portugal" came from Latin [*Portus Cale*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portugal#Etymology), or "the port of Cale", where Cale was supposedly [some Celtic goddess](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cailleach) (according to a theory, anyway).
- [Italians sell wet snails](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heliciculture#/media/File:Snails-Italy.jpg) like Chinese people sell dried seafood.
- When GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) came around, [Facebook just moved its users from Facebook Ireland to Facebook US, where EU laws don't apply](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/apr/19/facebook-moves-15bn-users-out-of-reach-of-new-european-privacy-law).
- [Germany has the second highest gun ownership per capita](http://www.gunpolicy.org/firearms/compare/194/number_of_privately_owned_firearms/227,228,67,68,69,70,71,190,191,192,195,196,197,30,218,31,219,35) but you don't see them shooting each other all the time.
- The [Nordic socioeconomic model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nordic_model) sets itself apart by having universal welfare, paid for by taxes, creating a [social safety net](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_safety_net).
