finance.md, before:

> "Everybody needs money. That's why they call it money." - Danny

- [Biweekly (once every two weeks) employees usually receive 26 paycheques per year](https://smallbusiness.chron.com/difference-between-biweekly-semimonthly-payroll-23886.html); semimonthly employees receive 24, and each payment is 8% more.
- The term [blue chip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_chip_%28stock_market%29) stocks came from poker, where the highest-valued chip (at least at the time) is blue, at \$25.
- The difference between a [heavy user](http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/heavy-users.html) and a light user is light users have other things to keep them occupied.
- [Managing a windfall](https://www.bogleheads.org/wiki/Managing_a_windfall): if you suddenly hit the jackpot and end up with a lot of money, congratulations! Read the link! (I didn't read it.)
- **Sales are proof-of-concept**. Sales are the fact that you can make up your opinion, but you can't make up your own facts. Your opinion is, "I think I have something." **Sales is, "I know I have something."** - Daymond, same kind of shark
- [The average tech guy in Toronto earns \$100k a year](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/careers/article-tech-salary-growth-in-toronto-outpaces-most-global-hubs/). That is lower than global averages.
- A [double-entry bookkeeping system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-entry_bookkeeping_system) insists that money has to go from one place to another. Every dollar has to come from somewhere, and go somewhere. That way if you try to do "rounding error"-type tricks, one side (either you or the store) will get less money.
- When investing, doing nothing is sometimes, maybe even often, doing the right thing.
- Thinking about profitability is very easy. [If the cost of you acquiring the customer is less than how much the customer will pay you, then you've made a profit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bFFgrLSEXA). Selling bundles is great, because (a) people think they get deals, and (b) people pay monthly, and (c) they rarely use everything in their bundles, which means less operating cost per customer.
- Investment "Rule of 72"... 72/rate = investment doubles in n years
- Only a fool would look at fool.com/fool.ca. On the 24th: ["Why Home Capital Group Inc is the Stock of the Year"](http://www.fool.ca/2017/04/24/why-home-capital-group-inc-is-the-stock-of-the-year/). On the 26th: Home Capital Group Inc drops by 60%+.
- "[Circular economy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_economy)" is a buzzword that means "nothing in manufacturing goes to waste".
- "Other people's money" and "Other people's time" are proven ways to make yourself richer. That's why companies exist. That's why you shouldn't be working for others purely for the money.
- "Bluechips" are large companies with huge market caps. They are usually safe, and don't move up and down much.
- ["Save 25X your annual spending and you can retire. If you invest to earn 7%/yr (on avg), you can withdraw 4% forever."](http://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2012/01/13/the-shockingly-simple-math-behind-early-retirement/) - Attributed to a comment [here](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18128477)
- "Gig economy" means people are always doing short-term work. [40% of jobs are expected to be one of those by 2020.](https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/gig-economy)
- [Nest Egg](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/nestegg.asp) means savings (for a purpose).
- [Credit monitoring a ripoff](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3DKnHgsyeS8): that's like hiring a guard that calls you whenever your house was broken into. What you want are credit freezes (assuming you don't want it to get higher, either.)
- [Candlestick _sharts_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candlestick_chart) show the same things as OHLC (open-high-low-close) charts. If it's green then it went up during the day, and if it's red then it went down during the day. OHLC because ["open is on the left, close is on the right"](https://static.incrediblecharts.com/images/png_images/bar.png) requires a higher screen resolution, and you cannot see the general trend of whether a period of time is mostly green or red.
- RRSPs [work only for people who](https://retirehappy.ca/when-should-you-not-buy-an-rrsp/) a) currently have an income above the marginal, and b) expect their tax bracket to be lower when they are old than what it is now. It also makes sense to [save your contribution room until the market is down](http://www.moneysense.ca/save/retirement/surprising-truths-about-your-rrsp/).
- [Rising rates mean lower bond prices (lower yield).](http://www.cnbc.com/2017/03/15/what-to-do-with-your-bond-portfolio-as-fed-rates-rise.html)
- The one million you need to retire is around three million when you can retire.
- [The Average Directional Index (ADX)](http://www.investopedia.com/articles/trading/07/adx-trend-indicator.asp) is a value ranging from 0 to 100, with anything above 25 indicating a good trend. Given two peaks, if prices go higher while ADX is not as high at the second peak, that means the trend might reverse.
- A [permabear](http://www.davemanuel.com/investor-dictionary/permabear/) is the kind of jerkwad investor who is always negative about the stock market.
- Companies IPO [to get money](https://ca.finance.yahoo.com/news/why-do-companies-go-public-an-ipo-explainer-180911043.html).
- [Fiat Money](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money) is backed by nothing. Representative Money is backed by something real, like gold and silver. Commodity Money is literally worth its weight in gold, because it is gold. (Or silver etc)
- You can [buy debt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hxUAntt1z2c) for a fraction of the actual amount of the debt, in the hopes that the debt will eventually be paid back. This is also why banks sell debt: they don't think the debt will be paid back.
- The Swiss (as well as 1/3 of economies) sell [negative yield bonds](https://www.ft.com/content/2ae4237a-2d3e-33dd-b9e0-120c4a93a29c). Governments sell negative yield bonds because [(most) insurance companies pension funds have to own bonds, even if the financial return is negative](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/negative-bond-yield.asp). They have no choice but to buy at a loss.
- A [hostile bid](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/hostile-bid.asp) is a takeover bid that is similar to a [hostile takeover bid](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/hostile-takeover-bid.asp)? In a hostile bid, you [convince](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/tenderoffer.asp) the shareholders to sell you shares, even if management doesn't like it.
- ["The Fed cut rates because it wanted corporations to be able to borrow money cheaply. It reasoned that cheap money would let corporations spend on new projects and take more risks, which would grow the economy out of the recession."](https://moneymorning.com/2017/02/17/warning-signs-a-stock-market-crash-is-coming/)
- It is illegal to pay your mortgage with loaned money, at least in the US... In Canada, you can borrow from your own RRSP, which doesn't count as borrowing.
- When people have less money for budget, [they buy more cheap things to compensate for not buying expensive things](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2017/jul/15/the-lipstick-effect-britons-treat-themselves-as-budgets-tighten). This is called the Lipstick Effect.
- The stock exchange is where people smarter than you get money off people less smart than them, like you. It is not a gambling table. It is an exchange. The smartest people win.
- [Indicators of low volatility (say VIX) are a sign that the tide is about to turn.](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/02/01/some-investors-are-worried-low-volatility-might-be-the-start-of-a-market-crash-heres-why.html)
- The [TD TDB900 Canadian Index Fund](https://www.tdassetmanagement.com/fundDetails.form?fundId=3261&lang=en) puts more money into Royal Bank than it does into itself.
- "Trade surplus" is a good thing. It means exports > imports, not "exports did not meet or exceed quota".
- [State Grid Corp of China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_Grid_Corporation_of_China) is a state-owned monopoly. It is not understood why Fortune Global 500 considers it a company (it's top 2, in fact).
- "Drop by 1% everyday" has a lower bound. "Rise by 1% everyday" does not. A 1% drop after a 1% rise results in less than before.
- [Insolvency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insolvency) (inability to pay back) happens before you really go bankrupt. Because you can have a house and not \$10 at the same time, you can be very rich and still _cash-flow insolvent_.
- [Apparently](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/3y6hbd/what_is_totally_worth_its_risk/cyb3z33), as you grow/age, you are supposed to move to more stable investments.
- An inverted yield curve (i.e. short term bond yield higher than long term bond yield) has always predicted a recession in the last 60 years.
- The current monetary system that [some other currencies are worth some other amount in USD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GNo7MDN5-0g) was a concept introduced after WWII to stabilise the global economy. The USD was still pegged to the gold standard at the time, but when [Richard Nixon took the USD off the gold standard in 1971](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixon_shock), suddenly, no money is pegged to the gold standard, and [all money became fiat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money#20th_century).
- [Banks sell the ownership of their mortgaged houses all the time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPOv72Awo68). Just because you got your mortgage from bank A, it doesn't mean bank A owns that house a few months later. During the subprime mortgage crisis, lending requirements got more and more lax, making mortgage-backed investments appear more reliable than historical data suggested.
- When seasoned investors use the phrase "beat the market", they prefix it with ["attempt to"](http://stockcharts.com/school/doku.php?id=chart_school:overview:why_analyze_securities).
- According to [this post](https://www.creditkarma.com/article/how-much-of-your-credit-should-you-use), there is no evidence of "credit underutilisation" impacting the credit score.
- The act of asking for a lower interest rate (or other terms) is called [refinancing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refinancing). Sometimes you can lock into a lower mortgage rate early by paying a penalty. If the penalty is less than the percentage change, it might still be worth a shot.
- Mutual funds are [supposed to](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/102715/do-mutual-funds-pay-dividends-or-interest.asp) pay you the dividends (if stocks) and/or interest (if bonds) that they earn.
- Capital gains are taxable, but [only 50% of it is treated as income](https://www.hrblock.ca/5-things-to-know-about-capital-gains/). But if you buy stocks in your RRSP account, that capital gain is treated as normal income and taxed at 100%. So if you have to choose *only one* account to buy stocks in, do it in your non-registered investing account. This does not affect people who buy stocks in other accounts anyway, or people who expect to have no income whatsoever during RRSP withdrawal.

Commit message:

the poor get poorer because it costs money to be dumb

finance.md, after:


>> "Everybody needs money. That's why they call it money." - Danny

- Pay off your house aggressively if you can either get better returns with that money pay in the meantime, or if you feel good about paying off your house.
- The more units there are in a condo building, the more likely it is for one unit to be affected by other units. The more likely something is going to happen to your unit, the less likely it is that an insurance company would want to insure you. [And when only a few insurance companies are willing to participate, the premium increases](https://globalnews.ca/news/6237709/bc-strata-insurance-surge/) because even the lowest bidder is very expensive.
- [Biweekly (once every two weeks) employees usually receive 26 paycheques per year](https://smallbusiness.chron.com/difference-between-biweekly-semimonthly-payroll-23886.html); semimonthly employees receive 24, and each payment is 8% more.
- The term [blue chip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_chip_%28stock_market%29) stocks came from poker, where the highest-valued chip (at least at the time) is blue, at \$25.
- The difference between a [heavy user](http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/heavy-users.html) and a light user is light users have other things to keep them occupied.
- [Managing a windfall](https://www.bogleheads.org/wiki/Managing_a_windfall): if you suddenly hit the jackpot and end up with a lot of money, congratulations! Read the link! (I didn't read it.)
- **Sales are proof-of-concept**. Sales are the fact that you can make up your opinion, but you can't make up your own facts. Your opinion is, "I think I have something." **Sales is, "I know I have something."** - Daymond, same kind of shark
- [The average tech guy in Toronto earns \$100k a year](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/careers/article-tech-salary-growth-in-toronto-outpaces-most-global-hubs/). That is lower than global averages.
- A [double-entry bookkeeping system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-entry_bookkeeping_system) insists that money has to go from one place to another. Every dollar has to come from somewhere, and go somewhere. That way if you try to do "rounding error"-type tricks, one side (either you or the store) will get less money.
- When investing, doing nothing is sometimes, maybe even often, doing the right thing.
- Thinking about profitability is very easy. [If the cost of you acquiring the customer is less than how much the customer will pay you, then you've made a profit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7bFFgrLSEXA). Selling bundles is great, because (a) people think they get deals, and (b) people pay monthly, and (c) they rarely use everything in their bundles, which means less operating cost per customer.
- Investment "Rule of 72"... 72/rate = investment doubles in n years
- Only a fool would look at fool.com/fool.ca. On the 24th: ["Why Home Capital Group Inc is the Stock of the Year"](http://www.fool.ca/2017/04/24/why-home-capital-group-inc-is-the-stock-of-the-year/). On the 26th: Home Capital Group Inc drops by 60%+.
- "[Circular economy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_economy)" is a buzzword that means "nothing in manufacturing goes to waste".
- "Other people's money" and "Other people's time" are proven ways to make yourself richer. That's why companies exist. That's why you shouldn't be working for others purely for the money.
- "Bluechips" are large companies with huge market caps. They are usually safe, and don't move up and down much.
- ["Save 25X your annual spending and you can retire. If you invest to earn 7%/yr (on avg), you can withdraw 4% forever."](http://www.mrmoneymustache.com/2012/01/13/the-shockingly-simple-math-behind-early-retirement/) - Attributed to a comment [here](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18128477)
- "Gig economy" means people are always doing short-term work. [40% of jobs are expected to be one of those by 2020.](https://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/gig-economy)
- [Nest Egg](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/nestegg.asp) means savings (for a purpose).
- [Credit monitoring a ripoff](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3DKnHgsyeS8): that's like hiring a guard that calls you whenever your house was broken into. What you want are credit freezes (assuming you don't want it to get higher, either.)
- [Candlestick _sharts_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candlestick_chart) show the same things as OHLC (open-high-low-close) charts. If it's green then it went up during the day, and if it's red then it went down during the day. OHLC because ["open is on the left, close is on the right"](https://static.incrediblecharts.com/images/png_images/bar.png) requires a higher screen resolution, and you cannot see the general trend of whether a period of time is mostly green or red.
- RRSPs [work only for people who](https://retirehappy.ca/when-should-you-not-buy-an-rrsp/) a) currently have an income above the marginal, and b) expect their tax bracket to be lower when they are old than what it is now. It also makes sense to [save your contribution room until the market is down](http://www.moneysense.ca/save/retirement/surprising-truths-about-your-rrsp/).
- [Rising rates mean lower bond prices (lower yield).](http://www.cnbc.com/2017/03/15/what-to-do-with-your-bond-portfolio-as-fed-rates-rise.html)
- The one million you need to retire is around three million when you can retire.
- [The Average Directional Index (ADX)](http://www.investopedia.com/articles/trading/07/adx-trend-indicator.asp) is a value ranging from 0 to 100, with anything above 25 indicating a good trend. Given two peaks, if prices go higher while ADX is not as high at the second peak, that means the trend might reverse.
- A [permabear](http://www.davemanuel.com/investor-dictionary/permabear/) is the kind of jerkwad investor who is always negative about the stock market.
- Companies IPO [to get money](https://ca.finance.yahoo.com/news/why-do-companies-go-public-an-ipo-explainer-180911043.html).
- [Fiat Money](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money) is backed by nothing. Representative Money is backed by something real, like gold and silver. Commodity Money is literally worth its weight in gold, because it is gold. (Or silver etc)
- You can [buy debt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hxUAntt1z2c) for a fraction of the actual amount of the debt, in the hopes that the debt will eventually be paid back. This is also why banks sell debt: they don't think the debt will be paid back.
- The Swiss (as well as 1/3 of economies) sell [negative yield bonds](https://www.ft.com/content/2ae4237a-2d3e-33dd-b9e0-120c4a93a29c). Governments sell negative yield bonds because [(most) insurance companies pension funds have to own bonds, even if the financial return is negative](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/n/negative-bond-yield.asp). They have no choice but to buy at a loss.
- A [hostile bid](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/hostile-bid.asp) is a takeover bid that is similar to a [hostile takeover bid](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/hostile-takeover-bid.asp)? In a hostile bid, you [convince](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/tenderoffer.asp) the shareholders to sell you shares, even if management doesn't like it.
- ["The Fed cut rates because it wanted corporations to be able to borrow money cheaply. It reasoned that cheap money would let corporations spend on new projects and take more risks, which would grow the economy out of the recession."](https://moneymorning.com/2017/02/17/warning-signs-a-stock-market-crash-is-coming/)
- It is illegal to pay your mortgage with loaned money, at least in the US... In Canada, you can borrow from your own RRSP, which doesn't count as borrowing.
- When people have less money for budget, [they buy more cheap things to compensate for not buying expensive things](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2017/jul/15/the-lipstick-effect-britons-treat-themselves-as-budgets-tighten). This is called the Lipstick Effect.
- The stock exchange is where people smarter than you get money off people less smart than them, like you. It is not a gambling table. It is an exchange. The smartest people win.
- [Indicators of low volatility (say VIX) are a sign that the tide is about to turn.](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/02/01/some-investors-are-worried-low-volatility-might-be-the-start-of-a-market-crash-heres-why.html)
- The [TD TDB900 Canadian Index Fund](https://www.tdassetmanagement.com/fundDetails.form?fundId=3261&lang=en) puts more money into Royal Bank than it does into itself.
- "Trade surplus" is a good thing. It means exports > imports, not "exports did not meet or exceed quota".
- [State Grid Corp of China](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_Grid_Corporation_of_China) is a state-owned monopoly. It is not understood why Fortune Global 500 considers it a company (it's top 2, in fact).
- "Drop by 1% everyday" has a lower bound. "Rise by 1% everyday" does not. A 1% drop after a 1% rise results in less than before.
- [Insolvency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insolvency) (inability to pay back) happens before you really go bankrupt. Because you can have a house and not \$10 at the same time, you can be very rich and still _cash-flow insolvent_.
- [Apparently](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/3y6hbd/what_is_totally_worth_its_risk/cyb3z33), as you grow/age, you are supposed to move to more stable investments.
- An inverted yield curve (i.e. short term bond yield higher than long term bond yield) has always predicted a recession in the last 60 years.
- The current monetary system that [some other currencies are worth some other amount in USD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GNo7MDN5-0g) was a concept introduced after WWII to stabilise the global economy. The USD was still pegged to the gold standard at the time, but when [Richard Nixon took the USD off the gold standard in 1971](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixon_shock), suddenly, no money is pegged to the gold standard, and [all money became fiat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiat_money#20th_century).
- [Banks sell the ownership of their mortgaged houses all the time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GPOv72Awo68). Just because you got your mortgage from bank A, it doesn't mean bank A owns that house a few months later. During the subprime mortgage crisis, lending requirements got more and more lax, making mortgage-backed investments appear more reliable than historical data suggested.
- When seasoned investors use the phrase "beat the market", they prefix it with ["attempt to"](http://stockcharts.com/school/doku.php?id=chart_school:overview:why_analyze_securities).
- According to [this post](https://www.creditkarma.com/article/how-much-of-your-credit-should-you-use), there is no evidence of "credit underutilisation" impacting the credit score.
- The act of asking for a lower interest rate (or other terms) is called [refinancing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refinancing). Sometimes you can lock into a lower mortgage rate early by paying a penalty. If the penalty is less than the percentage change, it might still be worth a shot.
- Mutual funds are [supposed to](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/102715/do-mutual-funds-pay-dividends-or-interest.asp) pay you the dividends (if stocks) and/or interest (if bonds) that they earn.
- Capital gains are taxable, but [only 50% of it is treated as income](https://www.hrblock.ca/5-things-to-know-about-capital-gains/). But if you buy stocks in your RRSP account, that capital gain is treated as normal income and taxed at 100%. So if you have to choose *only one* account to buy stocks in, do it in your non-registered investing account. This does not affect people who buy stocks in other accounts anyway, or people who expect to have no income whatsoever during RRSP withdrawal.
