geography.md, before:

- A [bog](https://sierraclub.bc.ca/a-marsh-a-bog-a-swamp-a-fen/) is nutrient-poor. A fen has slow-flowing water that might have nutrients.
- The [South Pole](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Pole) is the dryest place on Earth, at ~0% relative humidity. For practicality, the South Pole follows New Zealand's time.
- There is no particular why [north is up](https://geog.ucsb.edu/why-is-north-up-on-maps/).
- Mariana Trench is east of the Philippines.
- City planning includes [flooding only the parts of a city that can afford to be flooded](https://www.reddit.com/r/waterloo/comments/i371mc/waterloo_is_sinking_man_and_i_dont_wanna_swim/), i.e. putting important buildings higher up, and parks lower down.
- [Aragon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aragon) is a place in today's Spain. [Aragorn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aragorn) is a dude in the Lord of the Rings.
- Cancun is in Mexico.
- There is a town called [Samsung Town](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samsung_Town). The company's headquarters are too big to fit in a single building.
- The average age of a country is [158 years](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/mggzdb/how-old-is-the-average-country), according to one source, Vice.
- The [Appalachian mountains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appalachian_Mountains) are in eastern US, not South America.
- Every part of Chile's lat/lng is negative for both components.
- [Levant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levant) (le-VANT) is a place, where Israel and Syria are today, roughly.
- Antarctica can be a desert because there can be [places where rain falls every two million years](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McMurdo_Dry_Valleys), like the McMurdo Dry Valleys.
- A [billabong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billabong) is an Australian oxbow lake.
- The closest Taiwanese territory to China is actually [Kinmen County](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinmen), something like 2km away from [Xiamen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xiamen). The two sides "artilleried" each other (in a friendly manner) from 1958 to 1978, and stil make [knives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinmen_knife) with the shells today.
- The [fall line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fall_line) is where the hills meet the flood plain.
- [Africa](https://i.redd.it/ocs4h9w3cot31.jpg) was the Roman name for the tiny province where Tunisia, Algeria, and Libya now are. The province came from [destroying Carthage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1szAxQh6Go) in the third Punic war.
- The French usage of [ha-ha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha-ha) (*hâ-hâ*) actually means an unexpected obstacle on a path. The [Ha! Ha! River](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha!_Ha!_River) means the river was an obstacle.
- Taipei is surrounded by a city called [New Taipei](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Taipei_City).
- Because Greenwich is (lat, 0), longitude goes from -180 to 180, not 0 to 360.
- The blue Danube (*Danu* being "river" in ancient languages) flows from Germany all the way east into the black sea.
- If you look closely, you can see a tiny bump out of France's waist, called [Savoy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savoy). It really is pronounced Savoy.
- A woman who lives in [Hamburg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamburg), Germany is a _Hamburgerin_.
- There are [seven transcontinental cities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Transcontinental_cities), with the most well-known being Istanbul.
- There is [no standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island#Differentiation_from_continents) (by size) that distinguishes islands from continents.
- An archipelago is just a group of islands.
- Pittsburgh is quite close to (40,-80).
- Spain almost touches Morocco.
- Oymyakon is the coldest place on Earth... children are allowed to go to school if it's -55 degrees C or higher.
- Portishead was named after [Portishead the town](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portishead,_Somerset), which sounds like por-tis-HED.
- There is a town called [Charfield](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charfield).
- There currently exists two *the Congo*s: [Democratic Republic of the Congo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo), with a "the" in the name, and [Republic of the Congo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_the_Congo), also with a "the" in the name.
- The Lichtenstein Castle is located in Germany, not Lichtenstein.
- [Cities tend to have a poorer east end](https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2017/may/12/blowing-wind-cities-poor-east-ends) because air pollution tends to flow east.1. New Zealand is on its own geographical (not political) continent called [Zealandia](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/14dkm7/is_new_zealand_a_part_of_the_australian_continent/).
- The summit [Chimborazo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chimborazo) of Ecuador is the farthest point from the centre of Earth, while Mt. Everest is the highest point from sea level.
- 西貢 is in the east, because Hong Kong.
- Quite a bit of rural Australia is [still farmland](http://i.imgur.com/PZSiEJU.jpg).
- Baltimore is on the east coast, roughly where Washington DC is.
- The US, UK, and Puerto Rico all have [virgin islands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virgin_Islands).
- [Tasmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tasmania) is a country next to Australia, not a jungle.
- [Switzerland does not have a capital city.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland#The_capital_or_Federal_City_issue) Bern is not a capital, but sure feels like one.1. [Sparta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sparta_%28modern%29) is now the capital of the region of [Laconia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laconia), an [unremarkable](https://goo.gl/maps/nXTVeBTRVN52) part of Greece.
- Guatemala is the country below Mexico.
- Reno NV is farther west than Los Angeles CA.
- [Jakarta is sinking](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/12/21/world/asia/jakarta-sinking-climate.html?_r=0).
- Singapore has a latitude of ~1.28.
- China's version of ["Salt city"](https://goo.gl/maps/WE44fxjeRNJ2) is nowhere close to Salt lake city.
- Australia has over 10000 beaches.
- [Nastapoka arc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nastapoka_arc), the near-perfect-circular crater-like thing in Hudson Bay, does not have properties commonly found in craters, such as [shatter cones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shatter_cone) in the bedrock.
- The [Republic of Kiribati](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiribati) has a number of settlements, among them are: [London](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London,_Kiribati), [Paris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paris,_Kiribati), [Poland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poland,_Kiribati), and [Banana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banana,_Kiribati).
- Understandably, [Easy Anglia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Anglia) is Eastern England. Before that, it wasn't immediately obvious that England had such a circular, cancerous bulge on the side.
- Interestingly, Nassau, the capital of the Bahamas, is on the smaller island.
- The Pakistani city of [Karachi is a top-10 city by population](https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/the-10-largest-cities-in-the-world.html), either 4th or 6th depending on where you check.
- New Zealand [literally means new sea land](http://i.imgur.com/ex6Zu.jpg). It is named after [Zeeland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeeland), a place in the Netherlands.
- [Yonaguni](https://goo.gl/maps/1WWTYei8jBU2) is lower down in latitude than Taipei is.
- Tobago rhymes with Potato.
- The Japanese walked to Japan. The sea that separated Korea and Japan did not exist.
- Bangalore is officially known as Bengaluru.
- Russia has an [exclave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enclave_and_exclave) called [Kaliningrad Oblast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaliningrad_Oblast). It is named after [a Soviet somebody called Kalinin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikhail_Kalinin).
- The largest country in Europe is actually [Ukraine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_European_countries_by_area), if you don't think Russia is a thing, because a country like [that](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/jan/19/twitter-admits-far-more-russian-bots-posted-on-election-than-it-had-disclosed) doesn't deserve to participate in [any event](http://www.cbc.ca/sports/olympics/ioc-russia-doping-1.4432781).
- [Brittany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brittany) is a place in France.
- [Earthquake lights](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earthquake_light) are visible near places before an earthquake happens. There is no concrete explanation so far.
- [All states in the US are divided into counties, with two exceptions: Louisiana, which consists of parishes, and Alaska, which uses boroughs.](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/5amvuf/til_all_states_in_the_us_are_divided_into/)
- New Hampshire is known as the granite state. Its capital city is [Concord](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concord,_New_Hampshire), a place you have never heard of.
- The [Bengal delta / Ganges delta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ganges_Delta) is the largest delta on Earth.
- The [Black Sea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Sea) is 5000 times (rounded up) bigger than the [Dead Sea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_Sea). More or less a lake, the Dead Sea is not really visible on a map unless you go looking for it. The average temperature at Dead Sea year round is 47 degrees Celsius.
- [Holland](https://www.holland.com/global/tourism/information/netherlands-vs-holland.htm) is two of the provinces in the Netherlands (called North and South Holland, unsurprisingly).
- Mount K2 is the second tallest mountain in the world, and also the one with the second highest death rate. Everest is the tallest, but [Annapurna I](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annapurna_Massif#Annapurna_I) has the highest death rate.
- [Lake Kivu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Kivu) blows up from underwater CO2 pressure every thousand-or-so years, suffocating and killing everything around it. "Around the lake, geologists found evidence of massive biological extinctions about every thousand years, presumably caused by outgassing events."
- Easter Island belongs to Chile ("annexed in 1888"). It is at the middle of ~~nowhere~~ the Pacific ocean.
- Bethlehem is in West Bank now. The [Gaza Strip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaza_Strip) is the tiny thing that is neither Israel nor the West Bank. Together, West Bank and Gaza Strip make up [Palestine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_of_Palestine).
- 九龍仔, 九龍塘, 九龍灣, and 九龍城 are all in Kowloon, but 九龍坑 is not.
- [Pulau Satumu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulau_Satumu) is an island in Singapore. Its name means "one tree", but the island has more than one tree.
- With a population density of 406 people per km² -- 497 if water is excluded -- the Netherlands is a very densely populated country for its size. Only Bangladesh, South Korea and Taiwan have both a larger population and a higher population density. Nevertheless, the Netherlands is the world's second largest exporter of food and agriculture products, after the United States.
- Naval Maps are centered at America, [cutting Asia in half](http://i.imgur.com/iF89Wxe.jpg).
- Both the [six-continent and seven-continent models of the Earth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continent) list Tel Aviv as being in Asia.
- [Trinidad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinidad) isn't in Asia, dumbass.
- Chinese government apparently obfuscates corodinates of their maps and street view stuff using something called [GCJ-02](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restrictions_on_geographic_data_in_China#Coordinate_systems) in the name of national security, but their algorithm is leaked so much that the reverse code it is just on wikipedia.
- [Doubly-landlocked](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Landlocked_country#Doubly_landlocked) countries are landlocked by landlocked countries. There are currently only two countries in this category: Liechtenstein and Uzbekistan.
- [Saudi Arabia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia) and [UAE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Arab_Emirates) are not the same countries. Saudi Arabia is the big one. UAE is a bit more to the east. Both are a huge expanse of almost nothing.
- [Maryland has no natural lakes](https://msa.maryland.gov/msa/mdmanual/01glance/html/lakes.html).
- [St Pierre and Miquelon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Pierre_and_Miquelon), tiny pair of islands with a population of 6,008, have four primary schools, one middle school, and two high schools.
- Scandinavia does not include Finland.
- There is [a line in China](http://www.didichuxing.com/en/press-blog/suvzicxv.html) at which the population suddenly drops. Reproduce this in Google Maps by drawing a line from 怒江 to 北京.

Commit message:

What doesnt make you stronger might kill you

geography.md, after:

- [Pacific and Atlantic ocean waters don't mix](https://www.geologypage.com/2017/11/atlantic-pacific-ocean-not-mix.html). Their [difference in salinity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halocline), temperature, and direction of flow make them hard to mix together.
- A [bog](https://sierraclub.bc.ca/a-marsh-a-bog-a-swamp-a-fen/) is nutrient-poor. A fen has slow-flowing water that might have nutrients.
- The [South Pole](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Pole) is the dryest place on Earth, at ~0% relative humidity. For practicality, the South Pole follows New Zealand's time.
- There is no particular why [north is up](https://geog.ucsb.edu/why-is-north-up-on-maps/).
- Mariana Trench is east of the Philippines.
- City planning includes [flooding only the parts of a city that can afford to be flooded](https://www.reddit.com/r/waterloo/comments/i371mc/waterloo_is_sinking_man_and_i_dont_wanna_swim/), i.e. putting important buildings higher up, and parks lower down.
- [Aragon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aragon) is a place in today's Spain. [Aragorn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aragorn) is a dude in the Lord of the Rings.
- Cancun is in Mexico.
- There is a town called [Samsung Town](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samsung_Town). The company's headquarters are too big to fit in a single building.
- The average age of a country is [158 years](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/mggzdb/how-old-is-the-average-country), according to one source, Vice.
- The [Appalachian mountains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appalachian_Mountains) are in eastern US, not South America.
- Every part of Chile's lat/lng is negative for both components.
- [Levant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levant) (le-VANT) is a place, where Israel and Syria are today, roughly.
- Antarctica can be a desert because there can be [places where rain falls every two million years](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McMurdo_Dry_Valleys), like the McMurdo Dry Valleys.
- A [billabong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billabong) is an Australian oxbow lake.
- The closest Taiwanese territory to China is actually [Kinmen County](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinmen), something like 2km away from [Xiamen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xiamen). The two sides "artilleried" each other (in a friendly manner) from 1958 to 1978, and stil make [knives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinmen_knife) with the shells today.
- The [fall line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fall_line) is where the hills meet the flood plain.
- [Africa](https://i.redd.it/ocs4h9w3cot31.jpg) was the Roman name for the tiny province where Tunisia, Algeria, and Libya now are. The province came from [destroying Carthage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1szAxQh6Go) in the third Punic war.
- The French usage of [ha-ha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha-ha) (*hâ-hâ*) actually means an unexpected obstacle on a path. The [Ha! Ha! River](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ha!_Ha!_River) means the river was an obstacle.
- Taipei is surrounded by a city called [New Taipei](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Taipei_City).
- Because Greenwich is (lat, 0), longitude goes from -180 to 180, not 0 to 360.
- The blue Danube (*Danu* being "river" in ancient languages) flows from Germany all the way east into the black sea.
- If you look closely, you can see a tiny bump out of France's waist, called [Savoy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Savoy). It really is pronounced Savoy.
- A woman who lives in [Hamburg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamburg), Germany is a _Hamburgerin_.
- There are [seven transcontinental cities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Transcontinental_cities), with the most well-known being Istanbul.
- There is [no standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island#Differentiation_from_continents) (by size) that distinguishes islands from continents.
- An archipelago is just a group of islands.
- Pittsburgh is quite close to (40,-80).
- Spain almost touches Morocco.
- Oymyakon is the coldest place on Earth... children are allowed to go to school if it's -55 degrees C or higher.
- Portishead was named after [Portishead the town](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portishead,_Somerset), which sounds like por-tis-HED.
- There is a town called [Charfield](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charfield).
- There currently exists two *the Congo*s: [Democratic Republic of the Congo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo), with a "the" in the name, and [Republic of the Congo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Republic_of_the_Congo), also with a "the" in the name.
- The Lichtenstein Castle is located in Germany, not Lichtenstein.
- [Cities tend to have a poorer east end](https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2017/may/12/blowing-wind-cities-poor-east-ends) because air pollution tends to flow east.1. New Zealand is on its own geographical (not political) continent called [Zealandia](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/14dkm7/is_new_zealand_a_part_of_the_australian_continent/).
- The summit [Chimborazo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chimborazo) of Ecuador is the farthest point from the centre of Earth, while Mt. Everest is the highest point from sea level.
- 西貢 is in the east, because Hong Kong.
- Quite a bit of rural Australia is [still farmland](http://i.imgur.com/PZSiEJU.jpg).
- Baltimore is on the east coast, roughly where Washington DC is.
- The US, UK, and Puerto Rico all have [virgin islands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virgin_Islands).
- [Tasmania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tasmania) is a country next to Australia, not a jungle.
- [Switzerland does not have a capital city.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland#The_capital_or_Federal_City_issue) Bern is not a capital, but sure feels like one.1. [Sparta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sparta_%28modern%29) is now the capital of the region of [Laconia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laconia), an [unremarkable](https://goo.gl/maps/nXTVeBTRVN52) part of Greece.
- Guatemala is the country below Mexico.
- Reno NV is farther west than Los Angeles CA.
- [Jakarta is sinking](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/12/21/world/asia/jakarta-sinking-climate.html?_r=0).
- Singapore has a latitude of ~1.28.
- China's version of ["Salt city"](https://goo.gl/maps/WE44fxjeRNJ2) is nowhere close to Salt lake city.
- Australia has over 10000 beaches.
- [Nastapoka arc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nastapoka_arc), the near-perfect-circular crater-like thing in Hudson Bay, does not have properties commonly found in craters, such as [shatter cones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shatter_cone) in the bedrock.
- The [Republic of Kiribati](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiribati) has a number of settlements, among them are: [London](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London,_Kiribati), [Paris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paris,_Kiribati), [Poland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poland,_Kiribati), and [Banana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banana,_Kiribati).
- Understandably, [Easy Anglia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Anglia) is Eastern England. Before that, it wasn't immediately obvious that England had such a circular, cancerous bulge on the side.
- Interestingly, Nassau, the capital of the Bahamas, is on the smaller island.
- The Pakistani city of [Karachi is a top-10 city by population](https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/the-10-largest-cities-in-the-world.html), either 4th or 6th depending on where you check.
- New Zealand [literally means new sea land](http://i.imgur.com/ex6Zu.jpg). It is named after [Zeeland](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeeland), a place in the Netherlands.
- [Yonaguni](https://goo.gl/maps/1WWTYei8jBU2) is lower down in latitude than Taipei is.
- Tobago rhymes with Potato.
- The Japanese walked to Japan. The sea that separated Korea and Japan did not exist.
- Bangalore is officially known as Bengaluru.
- Russia has an [exclave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enclave_and_exclave) called [Kaliningrad Oblast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaliningrad_Oblast). It is named after [a Soviet somebody called Kalinin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikhail_Kalinin).
- The largest country in Europe is actually [Ukraine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_European_countries_by_area), if you don't think Russia is a thing, because a country like [that](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/jan/19/twitter-admits-far-more-russian-bots-posted-on-election-than-it-had-disclosed) doesn't deserve to participate in [any event](http://www.cbc.ca/sports/olympics/ioc-russia-doping-1.4432781).
- [Brittany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brittany) is a place in France.
- [Earthquake lights](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earthquake_light) are visible near places before an earthquake happens. There is no concrete explanation so far.
- [All states in the US are divided into counties, with two exceptions: Louisiana, which consists of parishes, and Alaska, which uses boroughs.](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/5amvuf/til_all_states_in_the_us_are_divided_into/)
- New Hampshire is known as the granite state. Its capital city is [Concord](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concord,_New_Hampshire), a place you have never heard of.
- The [Bengal delta / Ganges delta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ganges_Delta) is the largest delta on Earth.
- The [Black Sea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Sea) is 5000 times (rounded up) bigger than the [Dead Sea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dead_Sea). More or less a lake, the Dead Sea is not really visible on a map unless you go looking for it. The average temperature at Dead Sea year round is 47 degrees Celsius.
- [Holland](https://www.holland.com/global/tourism/information/netherlands-vs-holland.htm) is two of the provinces in the Netherlands (called North and South Holland, unsurprisingly).
- Mount K2 is the second tallest mountain in the world, and also the one with the second highest death rate. Everest is the tallest, but [Annapurna I](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annapurna_Massif#Annapurna_I) has the highest death rate.
- [Lake Kivu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Kivu) blows up from underwater CO2 pressure every thousand-or-so years, suffocating and killing everything around it. "Around the lake, geologists found evidence of massive biological extinctions about every thousand years, presumably caused by outgassing events."
- Easter Island belongs to Chile ("annexed in 1888"). It is at the middle of ~~nowhere~~ the Pacific ocean.
- Bethlehem is in West Bank now. The [Gaza Strip](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaza_Strip) is the tiny thing that is neither Israel nor the West Bank. Together, West Bank and Gaza Strip make up [Palestine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_of_Palestine).
- 九龍仔, 九龍塘, 九龍灣, and 九龍城 are all in Kowloon, but 九龍坑 is not.
- [Pulau Satumu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulau_Satumu) is an island in Singapore. Its name means "one tree", but the island has more than one tree.
- With a population density of 406 people per km² -- 497 if water is excluded -- the Netherlands is a very densely populated country for its size. Only Bangladesh, South Korea and Taiwan have both a larger population and a higher population density. Nevertheless, the Netherlands is the world's second largest exporter of food and agriculture products, after the United States.
- Naval Maps are centered at America, [cutting Asia in half](http://i.imgur.com/iF89Wxe.jpg).
- Both the [six-continent and seven-continent models of the Earth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continent) list Tel Aviv as being in Asia.
- [Trinidad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinidad) isn't in Asia, dumbass.
- Chinese government apparently obfuscates corodinates of their maps and street view stuff using something called [GCJ-02](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restrictions_on_geographic_data_in_China#Coordinate_systems) in the name of national security, but their algorithm is leaked so much that the reverse code it is just on wikipedia.
- [Doubly-landlocked](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Landlocked_country#Doubly_landlocked) countries are landlocked by landlocked countries. There are currently only two countries in this category: Liechtenstein and Uzbekistan.
- [Saudi Arabia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia) and [UAE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Arab_Emirates) are not the same countries. Saudi Arabia is the big one. UAE is a bit more to the east. Both are a huge expanse of almost nothing.
- [Maryland has no natural lakes](https://msa.maryland.gov/msa/mdmanual/01glance/html/lakes.html).
- [St Pierre and Miquelon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_Pierre_and_Miquelon), tiny pair of islands with a population of 6,008, have four primary schools, one middle school, and two high schools.
- Scandinavia does not include Finland.
- There is [a line in China](http://www.didichuxing.com/en/press-blog/suvzicxv.html) at which the population suddenly drops. Reproduce this in Google Maps by drawing a line from 怒江 to 北京.
