mathematics.md, before:

![Bad maths](https://i.imgur.com/fZAsEYW.png)

- It is obvious, if one of your two brain cells thinks about it, that two primes never share a factor with each other (other than 1).
- If 2000 people are killed annually by lightning, then your lifetime chance of getting killed by one is 0.002%, or ("1 in 60,000 to 80,000") like National Geographic said according to some calculation.
- Something that increases by 25% *always* needs to drop by 20% to return to the same value... because `x * (1 + 25%) * (1 - 20%) = x * (1.25 * 0.8) = x * 1 = x`.
- To compare pizza sizes, you don't need pi in the calculation. Just compare `r1 * r1 / r2 / r2`.
- How to read odds: if the odds is "3/5" and you bet $10, you can get $10 + ($10 * (3/5) = $6) if you win. If you lose, well, you lose \$10. If I understand this correctly, the odds of "3/5" directly expresses the proportion of people who support your bet (the 5), and the proportion of people who bet otherwise (the 3), but has nothing to do with the actual probability of an event happening.
- The [area of a dodecagon](https://www.reddit.com/r/u_mtimetraveller/comments/dkljyz) (12 sided polygon) is exactly 3r^2. In contract, the smallest circle that encloses it is pi r^2, or roughly 14% larger.
- A [bipartite graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipartite_graph) or "bigraph" is a graph whose nodes ("vertices") can be split into two groups _U_ and _V_, such that every line ("edge") connects from U to V.
- 2^31 - 1 is one of only four known [double Mersenne primes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_Mersenne_number) (given a prime `P`, `2P - 1` is a prime, and `2^(2P - 1) - 1` is also prime).
- [Not having any boarding groups at all](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAHbLRjF0vo) makes boarding faster than if the airlines do nothing at all, which they now do.
- If complex numbers are not complex enough, there are [hypercomplex numbers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypercomplex_number). [Quaternions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quaternion), one such system, goes by _a + bi + cj + dk_ rather than _a + bi_ (complex). In this system, _j × k_ somehow comes you _-i_.
- [Littlewood's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Littlewood%27s_law) states that a person can expect to experience events with odds of one in a million (defined by the law as a "miracle") at the rate of about one per month.
- Regular expressions are called regular expressions because they are the expressions used to describe [regular languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_language).
- In the world if statistics, the probability of something happening, and the probability of that something _not_ happening, always combine to 1 (100%).
- [9629, 8093, and 8068](https://brandongaille.com/least-used-4-digit-atm-pin-numbers/) are the least-used four-digit PINs.
- If everyone produces four offsprings at the age of 12, then it is completely possible to end up with 7 billion people after 500 generations.
- Doubles the risk means nothing if the original risk is 1 out of 10 million.
- 'NP-hard [problems](https://www.quantamagazine.org/a-short-guide-to-hard-problems-20180716/) might be in NP, or in a much higher complexity class (as you can see from the Euler diagram), or they might not even be decidable problems. That's why people often say something like ["NP-hard means at least as hard as NP"](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/a/308184/116811) when trying to explain this stuff informally.'
- [Tuple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuple) does not mean an element of two. The suffix "-tuple" starts at five, "quan*tuple*", and _n_-tuple is now used to describe a tuple of length n.
- If matrix multiplication means [placing the second matrix on top of the first one, and calculating the dot products successively](http://matrixmultiplication.xyz/), then in order to multiply two matrices, the number of columns of the first must equal to the number of rows of the second.
- _Overfitting_: when you tune a learning algorithm so well to, say, 5 of your existing data points, that, when a 6th data point is found, the algorithm completely fails to take it into account.
- A binary heap can be implemented using an array. Array[0] would be the root, making Array[1] and Array[2] the children, and Array[3] ~ Array[6] their children.
- A max-heap is a [heap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heap_%28data_structure%29#Implementation) (idk, a binary tree) whose nodes' values are higher than their childrens'. This would make the root node the highest value. A min-heap is the opposite, making its root node the smallest value.
- If you're now asking what a binary search tree is, then [you're in luck](https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/27860/whats-the-difference-between-a-binary-search-tree-and-a-binary-heap): instead of "the topmost element is the largest/smallest", a BST says the leftmost element is the smallest.
- The [Gamma function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factorial#Extension_of_factorial_to_non-integer_values_of_argument) (a definite integral) defines factorials for non-integer numbers, except negative integers. Gamma(n) still equals to the usual values when n is an integer, but the graph shows that negative integers resolve to either positive or negative infinity (undefined).
- "P-hacking" is doing an experiment with no particular aim in mind. You do an experiment, record all observations, find two attributes (sometimes not even your original hypothesis) that corrolate with each other, and publish it in a paper.
- _O(n!)_ is worse than _O(2^n)_ for anything higher than _n=3.459_.
- **Finite**: an exact number N. **Unbounded**: anything below finite number N.
- [Multifactorials](http://www.mathcelebrity.com/multifactorial.php): factorials that don't go down by 1. `12!! = 12 * 10 * 8 * ...`. `12!!! = 12 * 9 * 6 * 3`.
- The most famous current use of quantum computers is [Integer factorisation using Shor's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_algorithm), where it is already faster than classical computers (in run-time complexity).
- [`(a + b)(c + d) = a(c + d) + b(c + d)`](http://www.mathwords.com/f/foil_method.htm) is apparently called the FOIL method? First ("ac") outer ("ad") inner ("bc") last ("bd"). Back in my day, we just called it the binomial expansion.
- The fastest path to go from a high point to a low point is the [Brachistochrone curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone_curve).
- The sum of numbers from 0 to 36 happens to be 666.
- A teenth is 1/16.
- For a single ball-picking event involving 5 balls, 3 green and 2 blue, the _probability_ of picking a green ball is 3/5 = 60%; [the _odds_](http://mathforum.org/library/drmath/view/56706.html) of picking a green ball is (3:2), which is not 60%. An odds of 150% [might make sense](http://www.miniwebtool.com/ratio-to-percentage-calculator/?numerator=3&denominator=2), [depending on who you ask](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Odds#Mathematical_relations).
- The number of prime numbers decreases as the number goes up. However the number of prime numbers is still infinite.
- [It is not true that a billiards ball-sized earth is smoother than a billiards ball](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxhxL1LzKww). The maximum allowed radius deviation of a billiards ball only concerns the width and height, not roughness.
- If something has never occurred (like finding no typos in the first 10 pages of a book doesn't mean the rest of the book has no typos either), then [this post](https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2010/03/30/statistical-rule-of-three/) says the probability of finding a typo in any page is `< 3/N`, where N is the number of pages you already looked at.
- A quart is called a quart because it is a quarter gallon, my dude. [The smallest crock pot](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0000CCY14/) comes in at "16 ounces", which is "one half quarter gallon".
- The list of pangrams, or [self-referencing sentences](https://selfreferentialsentences.blogspot.com/) that count the number of each letter in itself, has a very limited number of valid answers.
- A Caesar cipher is literally a letter shifting algorithm. ROT13 is probably considered one of those. To break one, either a) just shift the letters for at most 25 times... or b) use the alphabet frequency ("fingerprint") to map the letters.
- A polyalphabetic cipher involves basically n caesar ciphers on repeat. If a password were "snake", then shift the first letter by 19 (S), second letter by 13 (N), and so on. But like the caesar cipher, it is basically crackable, as long as you know how to determine the length of the password.
- A one-time pad is a list of random shifts, that _must_ be at least as long as the message itself. Because the cipher is never repeated, the shifts are impossible to find, because with the shifts never repeating itself, every shift is equally as likely.
- "Frequency stability" is demonstrated by a series of random coin flips. A true random sequence is equally likely to contain runs of any combination in any length, i.e. in a bunch of 1s and 0s, (count(000) == count(001) == count(010) == ...).
- The enigma machine was supposed to be automatic one-time pad makers. In order for two people to communicate, these enigma machines have the same initial states... the code breaking machine targeted the fact that the enigma will never convert one letter to the same letter.
- The "message space" is the number of possible messages, so if you are given the option to write a message four letters long, then the message space is 26^4.
- The "key space" is the number of possible keys. If you are to make a key that is four letters long, then the key space is also 26^4.
- The "ciphertext space" is the number of possible results after encryption.
- "Perfect secrecy" is, given unlimited computational power, some encryption scheme is so strong that guessing is the best someone can do to crack it. If the message space == cipher space, then every message is equally likely, and you can do nothing but guess.
- Pseudorandom numbers are seeded by a number (called a random seed). If a PRN generator repeats after 100 numbers, then the period is 100. All PRNs repeat eventually. If these numbers are used as cipher shifts, this massively lowers the key space compared to actual random numbers, due to the fact that they repeat eventually.
- Cipher vs code: a code is a mapping from some useful unit of word or phrase into something longer (like 67 -> apple). Ciphers don't have meaning. So, codes have semantic meaning, ciphers don't.
- Prime factorisation... all numbers decompose to a number of primes, these primes multiply to that number. No two different numbers share the same factorisation (because duh, they won't multiply together to different numbers).
- Prime factorisation comes into this because `{(some number) ^ (party 1's private key) ^ (party 2's private key)} mod (huge prime)` == `{(some number) ^ (party 2's private key) ^ (party 1's private key)} mod (huge prime)`. When used in Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange, neither private keys are exposed, and modular arithmetic is fast for people who do have their private keys.
- `(m^e) mod N = c` (where m is the private key?) is a one-way function because given e, N, and c, it is still hard to find m.
- Factorials end up with lots of zeros at the end. That's because [every time the number reaches "10", an additional trailing zero is guaranteed.](http://www.purplemath.com/modules/factzero.htm) Every pair of 2 and 5 also add a zero.
- The [pigeonhole principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigeonhole_principle) paraphrases that "if you have 10 things and 9 holes to put them in, then 1 of the holes must have more than 1 thing". The first semi-useful example given was "if you have a drawer of socks, half black half blue, you can get a pair of the same colour by taking out at most 3 socks".
- The [Nash equilibrium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nash_equilibrium) is reached when all players know all the other players' strategies, and find no reason (nothing to gain) to change their own strategy.
- [`∀x ∃!y ∋ f(x)=y`](https://news.realm.io/news/altconf-daniel-steinberg-what-the-functor-monad/) = "(For every) x (There exists a unique) y (such that) f(x) equals y". More useful symbols [here](http://www.rapidtables.com/math/symbols/Basic_Math_Symbols.htm).
- [Every digit of pi is equally likely (at least it is, in the first 10 million digits).](http://blogs.sas.com/content/iml/2015/03/12/digits-of-pi.html)
- In the year of 1997, you had solved the rubik's cube (keychain), by random chance, while ~~concentrating on taking a shit~~in the bathroom. You had double-checked and triple-checked the cube, and, indeed, it had been solved. And no one would believe you, because you were ~~taking a shit~~in the bathroom, no one saw you.
- The result of a [Modulo operation (%)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modulo_operation) varies highly across languages. The sign of the result can follow the divisor (Lua, Excel, Perl, ...), dividend (bash, C#, Erlang, ...), always positive or negative (algol, dart, maple, ...), or undefined (C, C++, Forth, ...). What's more, if the numbers aren't integers, you may get different signs back, too!
- If objects have infinite density, then the [Banach--Tarski paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banach%E2%80%93Tarski_paradox) can turn any ball into an infinite number of balls, by taking the first one apart and putting the pieces back together.
- If you do cube roots a lot, [there is a way to calculate it quickly](http://www.mindmagician.org/cubert.aspx).
- Exponential growth === geometric growth. The one that grows linearly is just called linear growth.
- "x% of y = y% of x". Not very useful as a concept, since you'll be multiplying x and y anyway, then dividing by 100.
- [Benford's Law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benford's_law): statistically speaking, the occurrence of base-10 digits is inverse proportional to its size.
- [Fourier series visual](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/1a/Fourier_series_square_wave_circles_animation.gif)
- If you have 6 3-choice questions and you answer at random, your chance of getting each question right is 1/3, the expected value from your test is also 1/3 (from 2/6), but the probability of you getting exactly 2 out of 6 questions right is [32.9%](sources/image2.png) instead of 1/6... because of something in [binomial distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binomial_distribution#Related_distributions)? Also you can get 0 to 6 questions right (7 possibilities), so at least it's easy to explain why it isn't 1/6.
- The [Best time to buy and sell stock problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/) is the [maximum subarray problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_subarray_problem). You solve it with [Kadane's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_subarray_problem#Kadane's_algorithm), the method of which is... well, [make a new list that adds the previous number to the current one if the current number is positive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86CQq3pKSUw). Once you've done that, the maximum number in that list is your "maximum gain".
- [Multiplicative persistence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wim9WJeDTHQ) is, given a number, how many steps it takes to reduce it to 0 after multiplying its digits together. The record holder is 277777788888899, with 11 steps.
- a^(-b) is equal to 1/(a^b).
- "Five sigma" or "Six signa" refer to the [area under the normal distribution curve](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/five-sigmawhats-that/), when the number of sigmas, positive and negative, are taken away. Six sigma allows 3.4 defective features per million parts.
- You can be [doing some crazy things](http://julesjacobs.github.io/2015/08/17/bayesian-scoring-of-ratings.html) to get the average of a 5-star rating.
- [Bayes' theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayes%27_theorem): The probability of something happening (A), given something else (B) already happened, P(A|B), is P(B|A) \* P(A)/P(B).
- [Coprimes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coprime_integers) don't need to be primes; they just need to have no common factors with each other. For example, even though 4 is divisible by 2 and 9 is divisible by 3, 4 and 9 are coprime because they don't share a factor.
- A fair five-sided die can only be emulated by a fair [10-sided die](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentagonal_trapezohedron), or by rolling a five-sided cylinder along a flat surface.
- `set_1 \ set_2` (backslash) is [equivalent to subtracting set_2 from set_1](https://math.stackexchange.com/a/1080998).
- The addition rule in probability is: if you have two independent but not mutually-exclusive events (e.g. "Likes red" and "Likes blue") P(A) and P(B), and you want to know the probability of either one happening, it is not just P(A) + P(B), because you might double-count the probability of the case when both happen (imagine the overlap in a Venn diagram). So subtract that, i.e. P(A or B) = P(A) + P(B) - P(A and B).
- The [nth triangle number](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/593318/factorial-but-with-addition/593323) i.e. (7 + 6 + 5 + ... + 1) is exactly `n(n+1)/2`, which is 28 for n = 7. [You can use the summation notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triangular_number) to express it as well: `sum(x for x in range(1, 8))`.

Commit message:

who knew a pandemic could mean so little to so many

mathematics.md, after:

![Bad maths](https://i.imgur.com/fZAsEYW.png)

- "1500 out of 100000 black people are in jail" and "300 out of 100000 white people are in jail" (actual statistics for America) doesn't mean black people are 5x more dangerous as white people. Remember 98500 black people and 99700 white people are *out of* jail; blacks and whites are more or less equally dangerous.
- [Zero times infinity](https://www.quora.com/What-is-zero-times-infinity) has a straightforward answer: zero. If you add zero an infinite number of times, it's still going to zero.
- It is obvious, if one of your two brain cells thinks about it, that two primes never share a factor with each other (other than 1).
- If 2000 people are killed annually by lightning, then your lifetime chance of getting killed by one is 0.002%, or ("1 in 60,000 to 80,000") like National Geographic said according to some calculation.
- Something that increases by 25% *always* needs to drop by 20% to return to the same value... because `x * (1 + 25%) * (1 - 20%) = x * (1.25 * 0.8) = x * 1 = x`.
- To compare pizza sizes, you don't need pi in the calculation. Just compare `r1 * r1 / r2 / r2`.
- How to read odds: if the odds is "3/5" and you bet $10, you can get $10 + ($10 * (3/5) = $6) if you win. If you lose, well, you lose \$10. If I understand this correctly, the odds of "3/5" directly expresses the proportion of people who support your bet (the 5), and the proportion of people who bet otherwise (the 3), but has nothing to do with the actual probability of an event happening.
- The [area of a dodecagon](https://www.reddit.com/r/u_mtimetraveller/comments/dkljyz) (12 sided polygon) is exactly 3r^2. In contract, the smallest circle that encloses it is pi r^2, or roughly 14% larger.
- A [bipartite graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipartite_graph) or "bigraph" is a graph whose nodes ("vertices") can be split into two groups _U_ and _V_, such that every line ("edge") connects from U to V.
- 2^31 - 1 is one of only four known [double Mersenne primes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_Mersenne_number) (given a prime `P`, `2P - 1` is a prime, and `2^(2P - 1) - 1` is also prime).
- [Not having any boarding groups at all](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAHbLRjF0vo) makes boarding faster than if the airlines do nothing at all, which they now do.
- If complex numbers are not complex enough, there are [hypercomplex numbers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypercomplex_number). [Quaternions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quaternion), one such system, goes by _a + bi + cj + dk_ rather than _a + bi_ (complex). In this system, _j × k_ somehow comes you _-i_.
- [Littlewood's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Littlewood%27s_law) states that a person can expect to experience events with odds of one in a million (defined by the law as a "miracle") at the rate of about one per month.
- Regular expressions are called regular expressions because they are the expressions used to describe [regular languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_language).
- In the world if statistics, the probability of something happening, and the probability of that something _not_ happening, always combine to 1 (100%).
- [9629, 8093, and 8068](https://brandongaille.com/least-used-4-digit-atm-pin-numbers/) are the least-used four-digit PINs.
- If everyone produces four offsprings at the age of 12, then it is completely possible to end up with 7 billion people after 500 generations.
- Doubles the risk means nothing if the original risk is 1 out of 10 million.
- 'NP-hard [problems](https://www.quantamagazine.org/a-short-guide-to-hard-problems-20180716/) might be in NP, or in a much higher complexity class (as you can see from the Euler diagram), or they might not even be decidable problems. That's why people often say something like ["NP-hard means at least as hard as NP"](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/a/308184/116811) when trying to explain this stuff informally.'
- [Tuple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuple) does not mean an element of two. The suffix "-tuple" starts at five, "quan*tuple*", and _n_-tuple is now used to describe a tuple of length n.
- If matrix multiplication means [placing the second matrix on top of the first one, and calculating the dot products successively](http://matrixmultiplication.xyz/), then in order to multiply two matrices, the number of columns of the first must equal to the number of rows of the second.
- _Overfitting_: when you tune a learning algorithm so well to, say, 5 of your existing data points, that, when a 6th data point is found, the algorithm completely fails to take it into account.
- A binary heap can be implemented using an array. Array[0] would be the root, making Array[1] and Array[2] the children, and Array[3] ~ Array[6] their children.
- A max-heap is a [heap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heap_%28data_structure%29#Implementation) (idk, a binary tree) whose nodes' values are higher than their childrens'. This would make the root node the highest value. A min-heap is the opposite, making its root node the smallest value.
- If you're now asking what a binary search tree is, then [you're in luck](https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/27860/whats-the-difference-between-a-binary-search-tree-and-a-binary-heap): instead of "the topmost element is the largest/smallest", a BST says the leftmost element is the smallest.
- The [Gamma function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factorial#Extension_of_factorial_to_non-integer_values_of_argument) (a definite integral) defines factorials for non-integer numbers, except negative integers. Gamma(n) still equals to the usual values when n is an integer, but the graph shows that negative integers resolve to either positive or negative infinity (undefined).
- "P-hacking" is doing an experiment with no particular aim in mind. You do an experiment, record all observations, find two attributes (sometimes not even your original hypothesis) that corrolate with each other, and publish it in a paper.
- _O(n!)_ is worse than _O(2^n)_ for anything higher than _n=3.459_.
- **Finite**: an exact number N. **Unbounded**: anything below finite number N.
- [Multifactorials](http://www.mathcelebrity.com/multifactorial.php): factorials that don't go down by 1. `12!! = 12 * 10 * 8 * ...`. `12!!! = 12 * 9 * 6 * 3`.
- The most famous current use of quantum computers is [Integer factorisation using Shor's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_algorithm), where it is already faster than classical computers (in run-time complexity).
- [`(a + b)(c + d) = a(c + d) + b(c + d)`](http://www.mathwords.com/f/foil_method.htm) is apparently called the FOIL method? First ("ac") outer ("ad") inner ("bc") last ("bd"). Back in my day, we just called it the binomial expansion.
- The fastest path to go from a high point to a low point is the [Brachistochrone curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone_curve).
- The sum of numbers from 0 to 36 happens to be 666.
- A teenth is 1/16.
- For a single ball-picking event involving 5 balls, 3 green and 2 blue, the _probability_ of picking a green ball is 3/5 = 60%; [the _odds_](http://mathforum.org/library/drmath/view/56706.html) of picking a green ball is (3:2), which is not 60%. An odds of 150% [might make sense](http://www.miniwebtool.com/ratio-to-percentage-calculator/?numerator=3&denominator=2), [depending on who you ask](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Odds#Mathematical_relations).
- The number of prime numbers decreases as the number goes up. However the number of prime numbers is still infinite.
- [It is not true that a billiards ball-sized earth is smoother than a billiards ball](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxhxL1LzKww). The maximum allowed radius deviation of a billiards ball only concerns the width and height, not roughness.
- If something has never occurred (like finding no typos in the first 10 pages of a book doesn't mean the rest of the book has no typos either), then [this post](https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2010/03/30/statistical-rule-of-three/) says the probability of finding a typo in any page is `< 3/N`, where N is the number of pages you already looked at.
- A quart is called a quart because it is a quarter gallon, my dude. [The smallest crock pot](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0000CCY14/) comes in at "16 ounces", which is "one half quarter gallon".
- The list of pangrams, or [self-referencing sentences](https://selfreferentialsentences.blogspot.com/) that count the number of each letter in itself, has a very limited number of valid answers.
- A Caesar cipher is literally a letter shifting algorithm. ROT13 is probably considered one of those. To break one, either a) just shift the letters for at most 25 times... or b) use the alphabet frequency ("fingerprint") to map the letters.
- A polyalphabetic cipher involves basically n caesar ciphers on repeat. If a password were "snake", then shift the first letter by 19 (S), second letter by 13 (N), and so on. But like the caesar cipher, it is basically crackable, as long as you know how to determine the length of the password.
- A one-time pad is a list of random shifts, that _must_ be at least as long as the message itself. Because the cipher is never repeated, the shifts are impossible to find, because with the shifts never repeating itself, every shift is equally as likely.
- "Frequency stability" is demonstrated by a series of random coin flips. A true random sequence is equally likely to contain runs of any combination in any length, i.e. in a bunch of 1s and 0s, (count(000) == count(001) == count(010) == ...).
- The enigma machine was supposed to be automatic one-time pad makers. In order for two people to communicate, these enigma machines have the same initial states... the code breaking machine targeted the fact that the enigma will never convert one letter to the same letter.
- The "message space" is the number of possible messages, so if you are given the option to write a message four letters long, then the message space is 26^4.
- The "key space" is the number of possible keys. If you are to make a key that is four letters long, then the key space is also 26^4.
- The "ciphertext space" is the number of possible results after encryption.
- "Perfect secrecy" is, given unlimited computational power, some encryption scheme is so strong that guessing is the best someone can do to crack it. If the message space == cipher space, then every message is equally likely, and you can do nothing but guess.
- Pseudorandom numbers are seeded by a number (called a random seed). If a PRN generator repeats after 100 numbers, then the period is 100. All PRNs repeat eventually. If these numbers are used as cipher shifts, this massively lowers the key space compared to actual random numbers, due to the fact that they repeat eventually.
- Cipher vs code: a code is a mapping from some useful unit of word or phrase into something longer (like 67 -> apple). Ciphers don't have meaning. So, codes have semantic meaning, ciphers don't.
- Prime factorisation... all numbers decompose to a number of primes, these primes multiply to that number. No two different numbers share the same factorisation (because duh, they won't multiply together to different numbers).
- Prime factorisation comes into this because `{(some number) ^ (party 1's private key) ^ (party 2's private key)} mod (huge prime)` == `{(some number) ^ (party 2's private key) ^ (party 1's private key)} mod (huge prime)`. When used in Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange, neither private keys are exposed, and modular arithmetic is fast for people who do have their private keys.
- `(m^e) mod N = c` (where m is the private key?) is a one-way function because given e, N, and c, it is still hard to find m.
- Factorials end up with lots of zeros at the end. That's because [every time the number reaches "10", an additional trailing zero is guaranteed.](http://www.purplemath.com/modules/factzero.htm) Every pair of 2 and 5 also add a zero.
- The [pigeonhole principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigeonhole_principle) paraphrases that "if you have 10 things and 9 holes to put them in, then 1 of the holes must have more than 1 thing". The first semi-useful example given was "if you have a drawer of socks, half black half blue, you can get a pair of the same colour by taking out at most 3 socks".
- The [Nash equilibrium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nash_equilibrium) is reached when all players know all the other players' strategies, and find no reason (nothing to gain) to change their own strategy.
- [`∀x ∃!y ∋ f(x)=y`](https://news.realm.io/news/altconf-daniel-steinberg-what-the-functor-monad/) = "(For every) x (There exists a unique) y (such that) f(x) equals y". More useful symbols [here](http://www.rapidtables.com/math/symbols/Basic_Math_Symbols.htm).
- [Every digit of pi is equally likely (at least it is, in the first 10 million digits).](http://blogs.sas.com/content/iml/2015/03/12/digits-of-pi.html)
- In the year of 1997, you had solved the rubik's cube (keychain), by random chance, while ~~concentrating on taking a shit~~in the bathroom. You had double-checked and triple-checked the cube, and, indeed, it had been solved. And no one would believe you, because you were ~~taking a shit~~in the bathroom, no one saw you.
- The result of a [Modulo operation (%)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modulo_operation) varies highly across languages. The sign of the result can follow the divisor (Lua, Excel, Perl, ...), dividend (bash, C#, Erlang, ...), always positive or negative (algol, dart, maple, ...), or undefined (C, C++, Forth, ...). What's more, if the numbers aren't integers, you may get different signs back, too!
- If objects have infinite density, then the [Banach--Tarski paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banach%E2%80%93Tarski_paradox) can turn any ball into an infinite number of balls, by taking the first one apart and putting the pieces back together.
- If you do cube roots a lot, [there is a way to calculate it quickly](http://www.mindmagician.org/cubert.aspx).
- Exponential growth === geometric growth. The one that grows linearly is just called linear growth.
- "x% of y = y% of x". Not very useful as a concept, since you'll be multiplying x and y anyway, then dividing by 100.
- [Benford's Law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benford's_law): statistically speaking, the occurrence of base-10 digits is inverse proportional to its size.
- [Fourier series visual](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/1a/Fourier_series_square_wave_circles_animation.gif)
- If you have 6 3-choice questions and you answer at random, your chance of getting each question right is 1/3, the expected value from your test is also 1/3 (from 2/6), but the probability of you getting exactly 2 out of 6 questions right is [32.9%](sources/image2.png) instead of 1/6... because of something in [binomial distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binomial_distribution#Related_distributions)? Also you can get 0 to 6 questions right (7 possibilities), so at least it's easy to explain why it isn't 1/6.
- The [Best time to buy and sell stock problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/) is the [maximum subarray problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_subarray_problem). You solve it with [Kadane's algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximum_subarray_problem#Kadane's_algorithm), the method of which is... well, [make a new list that adds the previous number to the current one if the current number is positive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86CQq3pKSUw). Once you've done that, the maximum number in that list is your "maximum gain".
- [Multiplicative persistence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wim9WJeDTHQ) is, given a number, how many steps it takes to reduce it to 0 after multiplying its digits together. The record holder is 277777788888899, with 11 steps.
- a^(-b) is equal to 1/(a^b).
- "Five sigma" or "Six signa" refer to the [area under the normal distribution curve](https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/five-sigmawhats-that/), when the number of sigmas, positive and negative, are taken away. Six sigma allows 3.4 defective features per million parts.
- You can be [doing some crazy things](http://julesjacobs.github.io/2015/08/17/bayesian-scoring-of-ratings.html) to get the average of a 5-star rating.
- [Bayes' theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayes%27_theorem): The probability of something happening (A), given something else (B) already happened, P(A|B), is P(B|A) \* P(A)/P(B).
- [Coprimes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coprime_integers) don't need to be primes; they just need to have no common factors with each other. For example, even though 4 is divisible by 2 and 9 is divisible by 3, 4 and 9 are coprime because they don't share a factor.
- A fair five-sided die can only be emulated by a fair [10-sided die](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentagonal_trapezohedron), or by rolling a five-sided cylinder along a flat surface.
- `set_1 \ set_2` (backslash) is [equivalent to subtracting set_2 from set_1](https://math.stackexchange.com/a/1080998).
- The addition rule in probability is: if you have two independent but not mutually-exclusive events (e.g. "Likes red" and "Likes blue") P(A) and P(B), and you want to know the probability of either one happening, it is not just P(A) + P(B), because you might double-count the probability of the case when both happen (imagine the overlap in a Venn diagram). So subtract that, i.e. P(A or B) = P(A) + P(B) - P(A and B).
- The [nth triangle number](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/593318/factorial-but-with-addition/593323) i.e. (7 + 6 + 5 + ... + 1) is exactly `n(n+1)/2`, which is 28 for n = 7. [You can use the summation notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triangular_number) to express it as well: `sum(x for x in range(1, 8))`.
