1. [Tuple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuple) does not mean an element of two. The suffix "-tuple" starts at five, "quan*tuple*", and *n*-tuple is now used to describe a tuple of length n.
1. If matrix multiplication means [placing the second matrix on top of the first one, and calculating the dot products successively](http://matrixmultiplication.xyz/), then in order to multiply two matrices, the number of columns of the first must equal to the number of rows of the second.
1. *Overfitting*: when you tune a learning algorithm so well to, say, 5 of your existing data points, that, when a 6th data point is found, the algorithm completely fails to take it into account.
1. A binary heap can be implemented using an array. Array[0] would be the root, making Array[1] and Array[2] the children, and Array[3] ~ Array[6] their children.
1. A max-heap is a [heap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heap_%28data_structure%29#Implementation) (idk, a binary tree) whose nodes' values are higher than their childrens'. This would make the root node the highest value. A min-heap is the opposite, making its root node the smallest value.
1. The [Gamma function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factorial#Extension_of_factorial_to_non-integer_values_of_argument) (a definite integral) defines factorials for non-integer numbers, except negative integers. Gamma(n) still equals to the usual values when n is an integer, but the graph shows that negative integers resolve to either positive or negative infinity (undefined).
1. "P-hacking" is doing an experiment with no particular aim in mind. You do an experiment, record all observations, find two attributes (sometimes not even your original hypothesis) that corrolate with each other, and publish it in a paper.
1. *O(n!)* is worse than *O(2^n)* for anything higher than *n=3.459*.
1. **Finite**: an exact number N. **Unbounded**: anything below finite number N.
