murica.md, before:

- "When I was a senior" typically refers to the fourth year of high school, even if you are 65 years old.
- Saudi increasing oil output while the world has no demand for oil, is actually [game theory masterstroke](https://www.ft.com/content/1da60fa2-3d63-439e-abd4-1391a2047972). All other oil exporting countries will starve to death, with shale producers (USA/Canada) going down first.
- 3M stands for Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing.
- [Disney owns National Geographic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Geographic_Partners), now evidenced by their new reality shows.
- The [USA Army Medical Corps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_Corps_%28United_States_Army%29) uses the [staff of Hermes the messenger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caduceus) instead of [the rod of Asclepius the healing god](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rod_of_Asclepius).
- Murica is incredibly transparent about [where its oil reserves are and how much oil it holds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strategic_Petroleum_Reserve_%28United_States%29), which is along the Gulf of Mexico.
- [Only 21% of American hospitals are for-profit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_care_in_the_United_States). [90% of Americans have some form of insurance](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/03/22/the-real-reason-medical-care-costs-so-much-more-in-the-us.html). So healthcare is still so expensive probably because of [broken insurance rules](https://www.quora.com/What-makes-the-US-healthcare-system-so-expensive), among other things.
- Joe Biden was the first Roman Catholic vice president.
- [Americans have always voted on a Tuesday since 1845](https://ed.ted.com/lessons/why-do-americans-vote-on-tuesdays). On Sunday the people need to go to some religious thing, and they need to travel long distances to get to the voting station on Monday, so they vote on Tuesday. - CBC radio.
- [Trump calls Lizzy "Pocahontas"](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2016/06/28/why-donald-trump-calls-elizabeth-warren-pocahontas/) because she hasn't been able to prove the native American bloodline that she claims to be proud of.
- Alaska is more than twice as large as the next largest state, Texas, i.e. you can cut Alaska in half and Texas will only be the third largest state.
- In the American Civil War, not every confederate state surrendered.
- The NSA's job [_is_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Security_Agency) to snoop on domestic and foreign intelligence (among other things I'm sure), so they're doing their job well.
- The number of paid vacation days required by law is 0.
- The [Cuyahoga River](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuyahoga_River) of Cleveland Ohio was known to be so polluted that "the water" caught fire.
- [The president of the senate is always the vice president of the US](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_Senate#United_States). Each term of the senate is 6 years instead of 4.
- George W Bush does not have a son, but he does have two daughters.
- Apparently you are [twice as likely](https://www.statista.com/statistics/388440/most-popular-months-for-engagement-in-the-united-states/) to get engaged in December than in any other month, but only if *your* (that's the way they spell it there) American.
- It is possible for [an American](https://saladinoforcongress.com/about/) to be a youtube star, [a MAGA neonazi](https://www.inquisitr.com/4429456/youtube-joey-salads-charlottesville-rally-photo/), and [a consumer of one's own urine](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/youtuber-joey-salad-running-for-congress-drank-own-urine-for-views/), and still be a member of congress. These people make decisions for YOU!
- [Manhattan helicopter service](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MetLife_Building#Helicopter_service) existed from 1965 to 1968. It was halted because someone died, and also too few people took it.
- Only the US and [Eritrea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eritrea) impose [taxes on non-resident citizens](https://www.taxesforexpats.com/expat-tax-advice/Citizenship-Based-Taxation-International-Comparison.html) (i.e. the ones abroad).
- The US does not have an official language. [Nor does Australia](https://www.triviagenius.com/countries-without-national-languages/). Fun fact: the [UK's official language is not English either](https://www.englishlanguagefaqs.com/2016/08/why-is-english-not-official-language-of.html) - it's none.
- "Marine One" is [the callsign of the helicopter operator that is carrying the president](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJRqB1xtIxg), not a particular aircraft.
- Homeschooling typically requires a degree of some sort, like GED. This is not true in some states.
- Statistically, [slightly more than one person dies everyday from a US mass shooting](https://gfycat.com/PartialThunderousHerculesbeetle) 2014 to 2018. So, assuming everyone lives to 80 years, your chances of dying from a mass shooting in the US is _only_ 0.01%!
- Kansas City is not in Kansas. Kansas City was founded before Kansas, so Kansas was just running out of names (or something).
- You can't (or couldn't) [self serve gasoline in Oregon](http://m.mentalfloss.com/article.php?id=18812), citing fire hazards.
- [Ivana Trump mentioned that, at least at one point, her husband used to keep a book filled with Hitler's speeches by his bedside. Just the crazy ramblings of a scorned ex-wife, yeah? Nope. Trump confirmed it.](http://www.cracked.com/blog/why-comparing-donald-trump-to-hitler-makes-perfect-sense/) (Same article: Trump resembles Hitler's rise to power in four other ways)
- [It's odd in the northwest](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/6lyjnc/what_is_the_most_useful_thing_you_know/djxmfq1/): even numbered buildings will be on the south and east sides of streets. It only works in the US though?
- American Chinese takeout boxes are [oyster pails](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/15/magazine/the-chinese-takeout-container-is-uniquely-american.html).
- 50 Cent is [African American](https://github.com/WCF/black-to-african-american). Eminem is Caucasian American.
- The American League has a "designated hitter" rule. That rule ["allows a tenth player, a hitter who does not play in the field but bats regularly in place of the pitcher. Pitchers don't have to bat."](http://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/american-vs-national-baseball-league1.htm) National Leagues don't have that rule.
- ["More than 167,000 young people age 17 and under married in 38 states between 2000 and 2010, according to a search of available marriage license data by a group called Unchained at Last, which aims to ban child marriage."](https://mobile.nytimes.com/2017/05/26/opinion/sunday/it-was-forced-on-me-child-marriage-in-the-us.html?_r=0&referer=https://news.ycombinator.com/)
- [Native Americans did not grow corn, beans, and squash together](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/2us94z/til_the_native_americans_planted_corn_beans_and/cobdujr). The plants do not mutually benefit each other.
- ["On Inauguration Day, Trump apparently filed his candidacy for 2020. Beyond being unusual, this opens up the ability for him to start accepting "campaign contributions" right away. Given that a sizable fraction of the campaign funds from the previous cycle were paid directly to the Trump organization in exchange for building leases, etc., at inflated rates, you can assume that those campaign coffers are a mechanism by which US nationals can easily give cash bribes directly to Trump."](https://medium.com/@yonatanzunger/trial-balloon-for-a-coup-e024990891d5#.fop83h2ew) (same article: there is a very tight group of people running the [Trump](https://np.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/5s4r9r/socalled_judge_criticized_by_trump_is_known_as_a/ddcfc3o/) government, intending to test the limits of the American administration, to see how much they can get away with before the people stage a coup.)
- [Donald Trump is the first president since Polk (1845 ~ 1849) to not have a white house pet.](https://www.thoughtco.com/white-house-pets-4144590)
- [Cargill](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cargill) is America's largest private company. They can commit atrocities without releasing any details.
- [Florida statute 10-20-life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/10-20-Life): get 10 years in prison if you show a gun during a crime. 20 years if you fire one. Life sentence if you shoot someone.
- At least in America, conspiring to commit a crime with someone else often lands you a heavier sentence than just committing the same crime.
- In [1981](http://www.todaywasterrible.com/aug-5-ya-fired/), when the [Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professional_Air_Traffic_Controllers_Organization_%281968%29) went on strike and the air traffic controllers refused to return to work, Ronald Reagan just fired all 11,345 of them.
- The Washington State was called Columbia prior to joining the union. It was renamed because, get this, they said [it might be confused with the _district_ of Columbia, the capital.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington_Territory) So they named it Washington. But the state capital is also called---you guessed it---[Washington, D.C.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington,_D.C.).
- The statue of liberty, a New York territory, is completely surrounded by New Jersey waters.
- [Andrew Ng](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Ng) wrote the machine learning course. [Andrew Yang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Yang) is/was running for presidency.
- [A plane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_American_B-25_Mitchell) [crashed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1945_Empire_State_Building_B-25_crash) into the Empire State Building and [it didn't collapse](https://i.redd.it/p4ier7ehw27z.jpg).
- [62 percent of cancer patients report being in debt due to their treatment.](https://bigthink.com/how-much-does-cancer-cost-2612936248.html)
- Chapter 11 backruptcy can be filed by people who have money. Case in point was Donald Trump, billionaire, who filed Chapter 11 for the fifth time.
- The swivel chair was invented by Thomas Jefferson.
- [United States have had formal universal suffrage (rich, poor, men, women) since 1970](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_suffrage#Dates_by_country), with various acts and amendments, progressively allowing fringe voters (like [blacks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voting_Rights_Act_of_1965), [young](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-sixth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution), and the poor) to vote.
- [Hawaii has the highest homelessness rate in the states.](https://vid.me/6YZ5) The high cost of living makes it very easy to go bankrupt there, with nowhere to go.
- [Half of the people from Detroit are essentially illiterate.](http://detroit.cbslocal.com/2011/05/04/report-nearly-half-of-detroiters-cant-read/)
- [The highest rate of unemployment in the US was 10.4% in 1983.](http://www.multpl.com/unemployment/table) Even in 2008~2010, unemployment did not break 10%. Therefore, 10% is serious business. [Greece is at 22%.](https://www.statista.com/statistics/268830/unemployment-rate-in-eu-countries/)
- Your everyday American [doesn't](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M) know who Edward Snowden is.
- Every US president after the [Time Person of the Year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_Person_of_the_Year) list began have been on the list. Except Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, and Gerald Ford. Roosevelt was however the person of the year thrice.
- [Walmart is the largest employer in 22 states.](http://www.visualcapitalist.com/walmart-nation-mapping-largest-employers-u-s/)
- [The five-step process to monetise US broadband](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/7o41rf/the_fcc_is_preparing_to_weaken_the_definition_of/ds6w3aw/): repeal net neutrality, count all data under one data cap, [remove local ISPs](https://www.reddit.com/r/videos/comments/7o30lo/anti_colorado_municipal_broadband_service/), lower data cap, and finally, offer website packages.
- [Americans don't find soaking your shoes and socks a big deal?!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XpoYWROw5BY)
- [Yellow NY plates are the new ones.](https://patch.com/new-york/harrison/not-everyone-happy-with-new-nys-license-plates) White NY plates are the old ones.
- The Denver Nuggets (basketball team) would make the opposing team sprint from one end of the court to the other to make them run out of breath. Tired players make more mistakes, and since Denver is a high altitude city, the home team is trained for this sort of thing, says Jmgill12, who claims to study basketball.
- [Waste Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waste_Management_%28corporation%29) is actually American. A company. A publicly-trading company.
- Puerto Rico is the largest unincorporated territory of the United States. Puerto Ricans are US citizens, but are not normal voters.
- The word "[Connecticut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut_River)" is a French corruption of the Mohegan word quinetucket, which means "beside the long, tidal river". The river flows both ways.

Commit message:

who knew a pandemic could mean so little to so many

murica.md, after:

- Toronto has a higher population than the entire state of Wyoming. The state of California has a higher population than the entire country of Canada. [Cheyenne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheyenne,_Wyoming), Wyoming's capital city, is about half as populous as Waterloo (and not Kitchener-Waterloo).
- FDR [died from a stroke while in office](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_presidents_of_the_United_States_who_died_in_office). The second world war ended a month later. [Zachary Taylor might have died from diarrhea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zachary_Taylor#Death). About half of presidents who died in office were assassinated.
- You need to be [at least a certain amount of pro-Trump](https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/ha86we/tiktok_users_are_trying_to_troll_trumps_campaign/fv1ci86/) to enter a Trump rally. Any rally is first come, first served, so you can be paying for nothing if you arrive late.
- [Antebellum](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/antebellum) means "before the [US Civil] war". [Lady Antebellum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lady_A#2019%E2%80%93present:_Las_Vegas_residency,_Ocean_and_name_change) changed its name to "Lady A" to avoid being associated with the pre-war south---[which it is](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antebellum_South)---after George Floyd got killed. [The leader singer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hillary_Scott) is from Tennessee. [Dave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dave_Haywood) and [Charles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Kelley) are from Georgia. They signed onto a label literally called [Capitol Nashville](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitol_Records_Nashville).
- "The United States doesn't have a united group of elites to lead the country" - Chinese commentators
- America is [actually fairly against killing its own president](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/gwfpn4/how_would_the_world_react_if_trump_got/) because they are anti-violence, "make him and his movement sympathetic", and, potentially, destabilise the states into a world war.
- "14.0029" is "fourteen point zero zero two nine" in any other country. In 'Murica? Fourteen and [twenty-nine ten-thousandths](https://www.themathpage.com/Arith/decimals-2.htm).
- Some soldiers at the Vietnam war [were mentally retarded](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_100,000). Pretty much Eugenics. They called it Project 100,000.
- There are so many pollen allergies because [they have been exclusively planting male trees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fh758qVQPqg) to avoid needing to clean fruits...
- "When I was a senior" typically refers to the fourth year of high school, even if you are 65 years old.
- Saudi increasing oil output while the world has no demand for oil, is actually [game theory masterstroke](https://www.ft.com/content/1da60fa2-3d63-439e-abd4-1391a2047972). All other oil exporting countries will starve to death, with shale producers (USA/Canada) going down first.
- 3M stands for Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing.
- [Disney owns National Geographic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Geographic_Partners), now evidenced by their new reality shows.
- The [USA Army Medical Corps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical_Corps_%28United_States_Army%29) uses the [staff of Hermes the messenger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caduceus) instead of [the rod of Asclepius the healing god](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rod_of_Asclepius).
- Murica is incredibly transparent about [where its oil reserves are and how much oil it holds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strategic_Petroleum_Reserve_%28United_States%29), which is along the Gulf of Mexico.
- [Only 21% of American hospitals are for-profit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_care_in_the_United_States). [90% of Americans have some form of insurance](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/03/22/the-real-reason-medical-care-costs-so-much-more-in-the-us.html). So healthcare is still so expensive probably because of [broken insurance rules](https://www.quora.com/What-makes-the-US-healthcare-system-so-expensive), among other things.
- Joe Biden was the first Roman Catholic vice president.
- [Americans have always voted on a Tuesday since 1845](https://ed.ted.com/lessons/why-do-americans-vote-on-tuesdays). On Sunday the people need to go to some religious thing, and they need to travel long distances to get to the voting station on Monday, so they vote on Tuesday. - CBC radio.
- [Trump calls Lizzy "Pocahontas"](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2016/06/28/why-donald-trump-calls-elizabeth-warren-pocahontas/) because she hasn't been able to prove the native American bloodline that she claims to be proud of.
- Alaska is more than twice as large as the next largest state, Texas, i.e. you can cut Alaska in half and Texas will only be the third largest state.
- In the American Civil War, not every confederate state surrendered.
- The NSA's job [_is_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Security_Agency) to snoop on domestic and foreign intelligence (among other things I'm sure), so they're doing their job well.
- The number of paid vacation days required by law is 0.
- The [Cuyahoga River](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuyahoga_River) of Cleveland Ohio was known to be so polluted that "the water" caught fire.
- [The president of the senate is always the vice president of the US](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_Senate#United_States). Each term of the senate is 6 years instead of 4.
- George W Bush does not have a son, but he does have two daughters.
- Apparently you are [twice as likely](https://www.statista.com/statistics/388440/most-popular-months-for-engagement-in-the-united-states/) to get engaged in December than in any other month, but only if *your* (that's the way they spell it there) American.
- It is possible for [an American](https://saladinoforcongress.com/about/) to be a youtube star, [a MAGA neonazi](https://www.inquisitr.com/4429456/youtube-joey-salads-charlottesville-rally-photo/), and [a consumer of one's own urine](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/youtuber-joey-salad-running-for-congress-drank-own-urine-for-views/), and still be a member of congress. These people make decisions for YOU!
- [Manhattan helicopter service](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MetLife_Building#Helicopter_service) existed from 1965 to 1968. It was halted because someone died, and also too few people took it.
- Only the US and [Eritrea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eritrea) impose [taxes on non-resident citizens](https://www.taxesforexpats.com/expat-tax-advice/Citizenship-Based-Taxation-International-Comparison.html) (i.e. the ones abroad).
- The US does not have an official language. [Nor does Australia](https://www.triviagenius.com/countries-without-national-languages/). Fun fact: the [UK's official language is not English either](https://www.englishlanguagefaqs.com/2016/08/why-is-english-not-official-language-of.html) - it's none.
- "Marine One" is [the callsign of the helicopter operator that is carrying the president](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJRqB1xtIxg), not a particular aircraft.
- Homeschooling typically requires a degree of some sort, like GED. This is not true in some states.
- Statistically, [slightly more than one person dies everyday from a US mass shooting](https://gfycat.com/PartialThunderousHerculesbeetle) 2014 to 2018. So, assuming everyone lives to 80 years, your chances of dying from a mass shooting in the US is _only_ 0.01%!
- Kansas City is not in Kansas. Kansas City was founded before Kansas, so Kansas was just running out of names (or something).
- You can't (or couldn't) [self serve gasoline in Oregon](http://m.mentalfloss.com/article.php?id=18812), citing fire hazards.
- [Ivana Trump mentioned that, at least at one point, her husband used to keep a book filled with Hitler's speeches by his bedside. Just the crazy ramblings of a scorned ex-wife, yeah? Nope. Trump confirmed it.](http://www.cracked.com/blog/why-comparing-donald-trump-to-hitler-makes-perfect-sense/) (Same article: Trump resembles Hitler's rise to power in four other ways)
- [It's odd in the northwest](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/6lyjnc/what_is_the_most_useful_thing_you_know/djxmfq1/): even numbered buildings will be on the south and east sides of streets. It only works in the US though?
- American Chinese takeout boxes are [oyster pails](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/15/magazine/the-chinese-takeout-container-is-uniquely-american.html).
- 50 Cent is [African American](https://github.com/WCF/black-to-african-american). Eminem is Caucasian American.
- The American League has a "designated hitter" rule. That rule ["allows a tenth player, a hitter who does not play in the field but bats regularly in place of the pitcher. Pitchers don't have to bat."](http://entertainment.howstuffworks.com/american-vs-national-baseball-league1.htm) National Leagues don't have that rule.
- ["More than 167,000 young people age 17 and under married in 38 states between 2000 and 2010, according to a search of available marriage license data by a group called Unchained at Last, which aims to ban child marriage."](https://mobile.nytimes.com/2017/05/26/opinion/sunday/it-was-forced-on-me-child-marriage-in-the-us.html?_r=0&referer=https://news.ycombinator.com/)
- [Native Americans did not grow corn, beans, and squash together](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/2us94z/til_the_native_americans_planted_corn_beans_and/cobdujr). The plants do not mutually benefit each other.
- ["On Inauguration Day, Trump apparently filed his candidacy for 2020. Beyond being unusual, this opens up the ability for him to start accepting "campaign contributions" right away. Given that a sizable fraction of the campaign funds from the previous cycle were paid directly to the Trump organization in exchange for building leases, etc., at inflated rates, you can assume that those campaign coffers are a mechanism by which US nationals can easily give cash bribes directly to Trump."](https://medium.com/@yonatanzunger/trial-balloon-for-a-coup-e024990891d5#.fop83h2ew) (same article: there is a very tight group of people running the [Trump](https://np.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/5s4r9r/socalled_judge_criticized_by_trump_is_known_as_a/ddcfc3o/) government, intending to test the limits of the American administration, to see how much they can get away with before the people stage a coup.)
- [Donald Trump is the first president since Polk (1845 ~ 1849) to not have a white house pet.](https://www.thoughtco.com/white-house-pets-4144590)
- [Cargill](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cargill) is America's largest private company. They can commit atrocities without releasing any details.
- [Florida statute 10-20-life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/10-20-Life): get 10 years in prison if you show a gun during a crime. 20 years if you fire one. Life sentence if you shoot someone.
- At least in America, conspiring to commit a crime with someone else often lands you a heavier sentence than just committing the same crime.
- In [1981](http://www.todaywasterrible.com/aug-5-ya-fired/), when the [Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professional_Air_Traffic_Controllers_Organization_%281968%29) went on strike and the air traffic controllers refused to return to work, Ronald Reagan just fired all 11,345 of them.
- The Washington State was called Columbia prior to joining the union. It was renamed because, get this, they said [it might be confused with the _district_ of Columbia, the capital.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington_Territory) So they named it Washington. But the state capital is also called---you guessed it---[Washington, D.C.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington,_D.C.).
- The statue of liberty, a New York territory, is completely surrounded by New Jersey waters.
- [Andrew Ng](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Ng) wrote the machine learning course. [Andrew Yang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Yang) is/was running for presidency.
- [A plane](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_American_B-25_Mitchell) [crashed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1945_Empire_State_Building_B-25_crash) into the Empire State Building and [it didn't collapse](https://i.redd.it/p4ier7ehw27z.jpg).
- [62 percent of cancer patients report being in debt due to their treatment.](https://bigthink.com/how-much-does-cancer-cost-2612936248.html)
- Chapter 11 backruptcy can be filed by people who have money. Case in point was Donald Trump, billionaire, who filed Chapter 11 for the fifth time.
- The swivel chair was invented by Thomas Jefferson.
- [United States have had formal universal suffrage (rich, poor, men, women) since 1970](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_suffrage#Dates_by_country), with various acts and amendments, progressively allowing fringe voters (like [blacks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voting_Rights_Act_of_1965), [young](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty-sixth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution), and the poor) to vote.
- [Hawaii has the highest homelessness rate in the states.](https://vid.me/6YZ5) The high cost of living makes it very easy to go bankrupt there, with nowhere to go.
- [Half of the people from Detroit are essentially illiterate.](http://detroit.cbslocal.com/2011/05/04/report-nearly-half-of-detroiters-cant-read/)
- [The highest rate of unemployment in the US was 10.4% in 1983.](http://www.multpl.com/unemployment/table) Even in 2008~2010, unemployment did not break 10%. Therefore, 10% is serious business. [Greece is at 22%.](https://www.statista.com/statistics/268830/unemployment-rate-in-eu-countries/)
- Your everyday American [doesn't](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M) know who Edward Snowden is.
- Every US president after the [Time Person of the Year](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_Person_of_the_Year) list began have been on the list. Except Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, and Gerald Ford. Roosevelt was however the person of the year thrice.
- [Walmart is the largest employer in 22 states.](http://www.visualcapitalist.com/walmart-nation-mapping-largest-employers-u-s/)
- [The five-step process to monetise US broadband](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/7o41rf/the_fcc_is_preparing_to_weaken_the_definition_of/ds6w3aw/): repeal net neutrality, count all data under one data cap, [remove local ISPs](https://www.reddit.com/r/videos/comments/7o30lo/anti_colorado_municipal_broadband_service/), lower data cap, and finally, offer website packages.
- [Americans don't find soaking your shoes and socks a big deal?!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XpoYWROw5BY)
- [Yellow NY plates are the new ones.](https://patch.com/new-york/harrison/not-everyone-happy-with-new-nys-license-plates) White NY plates are the old ones.
- The Denver Nuggets (basketball team) would make the opposing team sprint from one end of the court to the other to make them run out of breath. Tired players make more mistakes, and since Denver is a high altitude city, the home team is trained for this sort of thing, says Jmgill12, who claims to study basketball.
- [Waste Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waste_Management_%28corporation%29) is actually American. A company. A publicly-trading company.
- Puerto Rico is the largest unincorporated territory of the United States. Puerto Ricans are US citizens, but are not normal voters.
- The word "[Connecticut](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Connecticut_River)" is a French corruption of the Mohegan word quinetucket, which means "beside the long, tidal river". The river flows both ways.
