php.md, before:

- Did you realise the difference between `||` and `or`, which both exist?
  - `$a = false || true === $a = (false || true) === $a = true`
  - `$a = false or true === ($a = false) or true === $a = false` (easier to understand if you think about `or die()`)
- http://net-beta.net/ubench/
- Declare all vars; undeclared ones 10 times slower
- Check for function calls in for loops
- Remove @s (reportedly slow) -> harmless errors should be hidden with 0 or `E_NONE`
- Minimize magics. They are slow.
- Check full paths for includes
- Static functions are 4 times faster
- Singletons are (faster / saves memory)
- `[v]p[s]rintf` is 10x faster than `echo("$ $ $")`; `echo (1,2,3)` is also faster
- `unset()`s really work in php.
- Use \$\_SERVER['REQUEST_TIME'] instead of microtime for start time
- Change `switch` to `else if` (faster)
- `++$i` is faster than `$i++`
- Use `ip2long()` and `long2ip()` to store IP addresses as integers instead of strings
- Avoid global variable changes; cache using local-scope vars first
- `isset($foo[5])` is faster than `strlen($foo) > 5`
- int list keys are always faster than str list keys
- Avoiding classes speeds things up
- `array_push` is [slower](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/559844/which-is-faster-in-php-array-value-or-array-pusharray-value) than `$array[] =` if you plan on [pushing only one element](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.array-push.php). It is faster because `$array[]` is not a function call.
- `strpos` is faster than `strstr`
- `str{5}` is 2x faster than `substr(str,5,1)`
- Even `@` is faster than `error_reporting(0)`
- ... but `isset()` is 5x faster than `@`
- `file_get_contents` is faster than `file`
- For code unlikely to throw exceptions, it's faster to use exception trapping.
- For code likely to throw exceptions, it's faster to check your values rather than raising exceptions.
- `=== null` is 2x faster than `is_null`
- `+` is 2x faster than `array_merge`
- `if` is faster than shorthand
- nested if is logically faster than `&&`
- `$a = 'func'; $a()` is faster than `call_user_func`, but slower than just calling the function
- Avoid \$\_GLOBALS at all costs; avoid `global a,b,c` too (2x slower than local vars)
- never use `while(next())`
- `foreach` is faster with key
- `foreach as &var` is 3x faster if loop involves writing to var.
- Recursion is 3x slower than not
- It is faster to `strtolower` + `strpos` than to `stripos`. (!!)
- `(int)` is faster than `intval`
- `array()` is marginally faster than `(array)`
- `===` is up to 12 times faster than `==` in all comparisons
- `break` [accepts an integer](http://www.php.net/break) for the number of nests of break out of.
- `{ code }` [effectively does nothing](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14971123/use-curly-brackets-to-structure-code-in-php).
- [No type-hinting for scalar (primitive) types](http://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.typehinting.php), but `array` is okay, because PHP.
- [No classes within classes](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1583140/is-it-allowed-to-create-a-php-class-inside-another-class)
- `$str++` incrementss the string bytes by 1 (a becomes b), but [`$str--` removes a character from the string](https://eval.in/60631) because lol
- `$argv` is a thing.
- Searching for [`exec($_GET`](https://github.com/search?q=exec%28%24_GET&ref=cmdform&type=Code) gives you a list of exploitable web apps.
- Every C99 shell has a [backdoor](http://thehackerblog.com/every-c99-php-shell-is-backdoored-aka-free-shells/) that allows the user-set authentication to be bypassed by the author.
- Empirically speaking, it is apparently possible to get a reference of a [require](https://github.com/chintanbanugaria/92five/blob/master/artisan#L30) by [`return`ing something in the file that you require](https://github.com/chintanbanugaria/92five/blob/master/bootstrap/start.php#L76).
  - I am already taking this back. You [cannot return classes or interfaces](http://stackoverflow.com/a/8084184/1558430).
- Interfaces cannot define access types (private/protected). Everything is public.
- `$factorial = function($n) use (&$factorial)`: [For any recursive function,] You need to pass `$factorial` by reference because the variable has not been assigned yet. If you don't pass by reference, PHP will attempt to copy the variable, causing an undefined variable error (notice). - [source](http://www.reddit.com/r/PHP/comments/2leo05/functional_programming_in_php/)
- [For very large numerical inputs, the php mod operator may produce NEGATIVE values, even if neither operator is negative.](http://stackoverflow.com/a/27113242/1558430) To work around this, you can use `fmod` instead.
- Apparently PHP has been encouraging [trailing commas](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2829581/why-do-php-array-examples-leave-a-trailing-comma) all along. Oops!
- Instead of using sane notations `[$a, $b] = [$b, $a]` or `array($a, $b) = array($b, $a)`, use `list($a, $b) = array($b, $a)` instead.
- [PHP 5.6](http://php.net/releases/5_6_0.php) introduces most things developers take for granted: `...$argument` packing/unpacking, `Type ...$hinting`, and `** // exponents`.
- [`php://`](http://php.net/manual/en/wrappers.php.php) is the portal to stdin and stdout, if necessary.
- `define()` is now (5.3) superceded by `const` [because it can now define things in global scope](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2447791/define-vs-const).
- [It is impossible to catch a warning](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1241751) (or an error, for that matter.) so what PHP people do is create an error handler (`set_error_handler`) that raises exceptions, run the offending code in a try-catch block, and catch the same exception that you throw. After the try-catch block, unset the error handler. "And they say PHP isn't a disaster."
- Despite how it is worded in the docs, `finally` doesn't run if any exception is re-thrown from the `catch` block.
- Use [`hash_equals`](http://php.net/manual/en/function.hash-equals.php) for comparing strings sensitive to timing attack.
- Because PHP is weakly-typed, [any md5 string in the form `0e\d+` will be considered as scientific notation](https://www.reddit.com/r/lolphp/comments/34sxw5/md5240610708_md5qnkcdzo/), causing the `==` operator to compare them as numbers.
- PHP has its own [`realpath_cache`](http://jpauli.github.io/2014/06/30/realpath-cache.html) that may cause problems if you attempt to manipulate the same file more than once in multiple system calls.
- Since PHP cannot have an array with `""` as its key (["you can't have empty strings as property names on an object"](https://www.reddit.com/r/lolphp/comments/42gxxd/decodes_to_empty_but_encodes_to_empty_so_you_cant/) ), [a valid JSON of `{"": ""}` is converted to `{"_empty_": ""}`](https://3v4l.org/Tg6GB).
- [PSR-8](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30762644/huggableinterface-in-php-and-psr-8) ("Huggable interface") is a joke.
- Inexplicably, `echo 'foo: ' . 1+1 . ' bar';` echos `1 bar`. [Sources](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1105565/1558430) cite, "non-industry-standard operator precedence," but PHP's order of precedence is still inexplicable.
- [psych](https://psysh.org/) is a [modern](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/this-is-what-modern-php-looks-like-769192a1320/) PHP REPL.
- Nullable types are denoted with `?type` (like `?string`) instead of the usual `type?`.
- ["Sometimes it is convenient to be able to have variable variable names."](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.variables.variable.php) Therefore, it exists as a core feature.
- PHP 8.1 adds [allowing `new Something` in `__construct`](https://wiki.php.net/rfc/new_in_initializers), even when the two classes are completely unrelated. Not sure why it is an edge case.

Commit message:

Fix that random thing showing blank lines and headings

php.md, after:

- []
- Did you realise the difference between `||` and `or`, which both exist?
  - `$a = false || true === $a = (false || true) === $a = true`
  - `$a = false or true === ($a = false) or true === $a = false` (easier to understand if you think about `or die()`)
- http://net-beta.net/ubench/
- Declare all vars; undeclared ones 10 times slower
- Check for function calls in for loops
- Remove @s (reportedly slow) -> harmless errors should be hidden with 0 or `E_NONE`
- Minimize magics. They are slow.
- Check full paths for includes
- Static functions are 4 times faster
- Singletons are (faster / saves memory)
- `[v]p[s]rintf` is 10x faster than `echo("$ $ $")`; `echo (1,2,3)` is also faster
- `unset()`s really work in php.
- Use \$\_SERVER['REQUEST_TIME'] instead of microtime for start time
- Change `switch` to `else if` (faster)
- `++$i` is faster than `$i++`
- Use `ip2long()` and `long2ip()` to store IP addresses as integers instead of strings
- Avoid global variable changes; cache using local-scope vars first
- `isset($foo[5])` is faster than `strlen($foo) > 5`
- int list keys are always faster than str list keys
- Avoiding classes speeds things up
- `array_push` is [slower](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/559844/which-is-faster-in-php-array-value-or-array-pusharray-value) than `$array[] =` if you plan on [pushing only one element](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.array-push.php). It is faster because `$array[]` is not a function call.
- `strpos` is faster than `strstr`
- `str{5}` is 2x faster than `substr(str,5,1)`
- Even `@` is faster than `error_reporting(0)`
- ... but `isset()` is 5x faster than `@`
- `file_get_contents` is faster than `file`
- For code unlikely to throw exceptions, it's faster to use exception trapping.
- For code likely to throw exceptions, it's faster to check your values rather than raising exceptions.
- `=== null` is 2x faster than `is_null` up to php 7. Then it becomes faster to call `is_null` again. Anyway, [the two are identical](https://stackoverflow.com/a/8229005/1558430).
- `+` is 2x faster than `array_merge`
- `if` is faster than shorthand
- nested if is logically faster than `&&`
- `$a = 'func'; $a()` is faster than `call_user_func`, but slower than just calling the function
- Avoid \$\_GLOBALS at all costs; avoid `global a,b,c` too (2x slower than local vars)
- never use `while(next())`
- `foreach` is faster with key
- `foreach as &var` is 3x faster if loop involves writing to var.
- Recursion is 3x slower than not
- It is faster to `strtolower` + `strpos` than to `stripos`. (!!)
- `(int)` is faster than `intval`
- `array()` is marginally faster than `(array)`
- `===` is up to 12 times faster than `==` in all comparisons
- `break` [accepts an integer](http://www.php.net/break) for the number of nests of break out of.
- `{ code }` [effectively does nothing](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14971123/use-curly-brackets-to-structure-code-in-php).
- [No type-hinting for scalar (primitive) types](http://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.typehinting.php), but `array` is okay, because PHP.
- [No classes within classes](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1583140/is-it-allowed-to-create-a-php-class-inside-another-class)
- `$str++` incrementss the string bytes by 1 (a becomes b), but [`$str--` removes a character from the string](https://eval.in/60631) because lol
- `$argv` is a thing.
- Searching for [`exec($_GET`](https://github.com/search?q=exec%28%24_GET&ref=cmdform&type=Code) gives you a list of exploitable web apps.
- Every C99 shell has a [backdoor](http://thehackerblog.com/every-c99-php-shell-is-backdoored-aka-free-shells/) that allows the user-set authentication to be bypassed by the author.
- Empirically speaking, it is apparently possible to get a reference of a [require](https://github.com/chintanbanugaria/92five/blob/master/artisan#L30) by [`return`ing something in the file that you require](https://github.com/chintanbanugaria/92five/blob/master/bootstrap/start.php#L76).
  - I am already taking this back. You [cannot return classes or interfaces](http://stackoverflow.com/a/8084184/1558430).
- Interfaces cannot define access types (private/protected). Everything is public.
- `$factorial = function($n) use (&$factorial)`: [For any recursive function,] You need to pass `$factorial` by reference because the variable has not been assigned yet. If you don't pass by reference, PHP will attempt to copy the variable, causing an undefined variable error (notice). - [source](http://www.reddit.com/r/PHP/comments/2leo05/functional_programming_in_php/)
- [For very large numerical inputs, the php mod operator may produce NEGATIVE values, even if neither operator is negative.](http://stackoverflow.com/a/27113242/1558430) To work around this, you can use `fmod` instead.
- Apparently PHP has been encouraging [trailing commas](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2829581/why-do-php-array-examples-leave-a-trailing-comma) all along. Oops!
- Instead of using sane notations `[$a, $b] = [$b, $a]` or `array($a, $b) = array($b, $a)`, use `list($a, $b) = array($b, $a)` instead.
- [PHP 5.6](http://php.net/releases/5_6_0.php) introduces most things developers take for granted: `...$argument` packing/unpacking, `Type ...$hinting`, and `** // exponents`.
- [`php://`](http://php.net/manual/en/wrappers.php.php) is the portal to stdin and stdout, if necessary.
- `define()` is now (5.3) superceded by `const` [because it can now define things in global scope](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2447791/define-vs-const).
- [It is impossible to catch a warning](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1241751) (or an error, for that matter.) so what PHP people do is create an error handler (`set_error_handler`) that raises exceptions, run the offending code in a try-catch block, and catch the same exception that you throw. After the try-catch block, unset the error handler. "And they say PHP isn't a disaster."
- Despite how it is worded in the docs, `finally` doesn't run if any exception is re-thrown from the `catch` block.
- Use [`hash_equals`](http://php.net/manual/en/function.hash-equals.php) for comparing strings sensitive to timing attack.
- Because PHP is weakly-typed, [any md5 string in the form `0e\d+` will be considered as scientific notation](https://www.reddit.com/r/lolphp/comments/34sxw5/md5240610708_md5qnkcdzo/), causing the `==` operator to compare them as numbers.
- PHP has its own [`realpath_cache`](http://jpauli.github.io/2014/06/30/realpath-cache.html) that may cause problems if you attempt to manipulate the same file more than once in multiple system calls.
- Since PHP cannot have an array with `""` as its key (["you can't have empty strings as property names on an object"](https://www.reddit.com/r/lolphp/comments/42gxxd/decodes_to_empty_but_encodes_to_empty_so_you_cant/) ), [a valid JSON of `{"": ""}` is converted to `{"_empty_": ""}`](https://3v4l.org/Tg6GB).
- [PSR-8](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30762644/huggableinterface-in-php-and-psr-8) ("Huggable interface") is a joke.
- Inexplicably, `echo 'foo: ' . 1+1 . ' bar';` echos `1 bar`. [Sources](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1105565/1558430) cite, "non-industry-standard operator precedence," but PHP's order of precedence is still inexplicable.
- [psych](https://psysh.org/) is a [modern](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/this-is-what-modern-php-looks-like-769192a1320/) PHP REPL.
- Nullable types are denoted with `?type` (like `?string`) instead of the usual `type?`.
- ["Sometimes it is convenient to be able to have variable variable names."](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.variables.variable.php) Therefore, it exists as a core feature.
- PHP 8.1 adds [allowing `new Something` in `__construct`](https://wiki.php.net/rfc/new_in_initializers), even when the two classes are completely unrelated. Not sure why it is an edge case.
- A nullable type is specified as e.g. `?int`, but the PHPDoc version of that is `int|null`. Go figure.
