physics.md, before:

1. Time dilation can also be thought of as [length contraction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVzDP8SMhPo). An object that is travelling at the speed of light towards you, also thinks you are travelling at light speed towards it. And you look just a fraction of your actual length dependent on your speed. This allows muons, which would normally only travel 500m before going away, to travel 10km worth of atmosphere.
1. Shutter *speed* and exposure *time*, being synonyms, are both units of time.
1. Noise reduction by averaging two photos only reduces noise by [the square root of the number of measurements](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_averaging).
1. The unit Kelvin does not come with the word "degrees" because it is considered absolute. Also, Since the triple point of water is at 273.16K but 0 degrees Celsius is 273.15K, [water actually boils at 99.974 degrees Celsius](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rjht4oAByCI).
1. For paranoid people who think [people can see them through walls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBFMsY5ZP0o), [EMF shielding paints](https://lessemf.com/paint.html) is for you!
1. [Cold fusion exists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aDfB3gnxRhc). Muons ("heavy electrons") hold nuclei 200x closer together, making them much more likely to fuse, which means it can occur at room temperature. Unfortunately the input energy to generate a muon is still higher than the energy you get back from fusion, so it's still useless right now.
1. Drag has a square relationship with velocity. This makes "making a huge gun that shoots people into space" inpractical.
1. Uranus (the 7th planet) is larger but lighter than Neptune (the 8th planet).
1. The original frequency of a signal is the fundamental frequency. Slight distortions of the original signal may also cause harmonic signals to be present. For example, if the fundamental frequency is 2 kHz, then the second harmonic signal would be 4 kHz and the third harmonic signal would be 6 kHz. etc.
1. A Decibel (dB) (`10⋅log₁₀(Power out/Power in)`) is indeed a deci of a Bel, which was named after a guy with the last name Bell.
1. Home voltages are between 120V to 240V. At least these are the figures reported by ISED Canada.
1. The voltage drop across a resistance can be measured with a volt meter across the terminals. If the current and resistance is known, voltage drop can be calculated using Ohms law: E = I R. (E =volts I = amps R= ohms).
1. The reciprocal of resistance is conductance. A circuit with high conductance has low resistance and vice versa.
1. Carbon is the most-commonly used material for building resistors.
1. The ionosphere is most ionised during midday, because that's when there is the most sun.
1. Taping windows during a hurricane [does little to protect people](https://science.howstuffworks.com/nature/climate-weather/storms/10-pieces-of-disaster-safety-advice-you-should-ignore3.htm), since glass is still glass, and taping only controls how big the shards are.
1. [Liquid or liquid-like cargo can sloth inside the ship, making the ship less stable.](https://theconversation.com/mystery-of-the-cargo-ships-that-sink-when-their-cargo-suddenly-liquefies-101158)
1. Capacitive touchscreens work with any conductor. They just need a big enough surface area to register as a proper finger.
1. A [pulse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse_%28signal_processing%29) that lasts literally no time is called a [Dirac pulse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirac_delta_function).
1. Venus' atmosphere is 90 Earth atmospheres' worth of pressure. [Most of the probes sent there imploded in midair](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJ5KV3rzuag).
1. GPS does not triangulate, says reddit man, it [trilaterates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trilateration). Trilateration does not involve the measurement of angles. "Where the signals overlap is where you are."
1. "Gravity warps spacetime", meaning [it figuratively warps the axes on which we make measurements](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jlTVIMOix3I). An apple thrown up falls down can be considered travelling linearly upward at a constant speed, had there not been a gravity distortion of spacetime.
1. A preferred rotation of planets came about when [all the planets going the other way got destroyed by the planets that go the other way](https://youtube.com/watch?v=MTY1Kje0yLg). Whichever direction with more planets wins.
1. The larger the opening of a vacuum cleaner, the more powerful the suction is, according to Mythbusters.
1. Sound travels 5x faster in water, but [more quietly](http://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/5qcr3p/-/dcy9qcn), so you rarely hear anything unless it was loud.
1. "Triangular sails allow ships to sail into the wind as well as with it." - How It's Made episode about sails
1. CT scans are still X ray.
1. It is impossible to exceed the speed of light in a vacuum, but it is possible to exceed the speed of light in water, which is about 0.75c. [When electrons do that](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherenkov_radiation) in a nuclear reactor, a blue glow is emitted.
1. "Fun fact, in space fuses don't work well because there is no gravity for the melted bit to fall away, so they continue to transmit electricity until the fuse metal boils away or the equipment fails."
1. Centripetal force is the force acting on the center. Centrifugal force is the force acting outward on the flying object.
1. The [Boomerang Nebula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boomerang_Nebula) is the coolest thing in the universe. Not Pokemon.
1. ["False vacuum"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_vacuum) refers to the theory that the current space is just a local minimum of energy, rather than the global minimum of energy, and that a random event might instantly turn the universe into one with a lower energy, destroying the current one.
1. If a bridge is [wavering about because of the people on it](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=gQK21572oSU&feature=youtu.be), then the people will try to adjust their stride to the movement, making the situation even worse.
1. A knuckle ball moves erratically because [it *isn't* spinning](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/50cg2n/hi_my_name_is_jack_im_14_years_old_and_i_love/d72zdj3).
1. [Superluminal communication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superluminal_communication) (communicating instantly through quantum entanglement) is believed to be impossible because, in a Lorentz-invariant theory, it could be used to [transmit information into the past](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tachyonic_antitelephone).
1. Running in the rain: given `total rain rate = (rate from top * seconds outdoors) + (rate from side * seconds walking)`, you get less wet if you stand still from time A to time B, and less wet if you run from point A to point B.
1. Space movies almost never depict explosions correctly. [There is no fire (or very little of it)](https://www.reddit.com/r/interestingasfuck/comments/90gkle/exploding_model_ships_cotton_balls_leds/e2qf461/), the fragments would travel at the same speed as the vehicle they came from, and it would quickly distinguish because there is no air.
1. To the moon, the Earth is a thing in the sky that stays in position all the time.
1. The ISS is set to retire in 2020. [Or 2024. Or 2028. Or...](https://www.google.com/search?q=The+ISS+is+set+to+retire+in)
1. The reason [(microwaving your own fucking hand)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WcOhd9ikNAw) is bad is because microwaves are primarily absorbed below the skin, thus bypassing the nerves. [You could be literally cooking your muscles without ever realizing it.](https://www.reddit.com/r/holdmybeaker/comments/3z2uoj/hmb_while_i_microwave_my_hand/cyiur98)
1. String theory, integrating gravity with the point-in-space ["standard model"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Model), is theoretically sound. [In 10-dimensional space](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Da-2h2B4faU). Maybe [it doesn't even make sense](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_theory_landscape).
1. 75% of the mass of the universe is hydrogen, and 25% helium. The rest are insignificant.
1. The fastest object to be propelled by man, apart from trivial things like particles, was a [manhole cover](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Plumbbob#Propulsion_of_steel_plate_cap), at 0.02% the speed of light.
1. ["...for every breath you take, there's a ... 99% ... chance that you're breathing in at least one molecule of Caesar's farts from his last day alive."](https://www.quora.com/What-percentage-of-breathable-air-on-earth-has-been-part-of-a-fart)
1. [Fish are more conductive than fresh water, but salt water is more conductive than fish.](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/3c3rd7/does_lightning_strike_the_ocean_if_so_does_it/) This makes electroshocking impossible in salt water.
1. Infrared cameras, including [one in a phone case](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Vc-69M-UWk), can reveal your PIN on any non-metal number pad, including the order of the digits, with 80% accuracy.
1. If the temperature gradient is large enough, power can be generated from the gradient using the [seeback effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermoelectric_effect#Seebeck_effect), which does not involve boiling water and turning a turbine.
1. Ultrasonic mosquito repellants [do not work](http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-20669080).
1. The event horizon is where escape velocity equals the speed of light. The photon sphere is where orbital velocity equals the speed of light.
1. UV light doesn't kill anything unless the light is applied for at least 10 seconds. The light also needs to be [UV-C](https://ultraviolet.com/what-is-germicidal-ultraviolet/), the wavelengths that kill germs.
1. A planet gets tidally locked, as a matter of fact, if it's too close to a star. Because, you know, the water is pulled towards the star. So you can't just look for Earth-like planets near the right temperature---[you need to look for the right size of star as well](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circumstellar_habitable_zone#Spectral_types_and_star-system_characteristics).
1. How fast a plane travels west/east depends on the wind direction, which is [not always faster from east to west](http://curious.astro.cornell.edu/about-us/40-our-solar-system/the-earth/climate-and-weather/68-why-do-airplanes-take-longer-to-fly-west-than-east-intermediate).
1. [Microwaving a half-cut piece of grape](https://www.minds.com/blog/view/177271/grape-microwave-and-pyrex) yields plasma.
1. [The 'speed of gravity' is the same as the speed of light.](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/2nukm0/which_is_faster_gravity_or_light/) If the sun goes away, we also have 8 minutes (ish) of time before we are affected gravitationally.
1. No free (Android) app corrects fisheye images because [it's hard](https://www.lonelyspeck.com/defish/).
1. By detecting the Earth's mass, magnetic field strength, and earthquake data, scientists conclude that the center of the Earth is made of solid iron, with liquid iron surrounding it.
1. We do not have enough nuclear weapons to blow up the moon. Even if we do, the moon would just clump back into a moon-size chunk.
1. [Why does light travel?](http://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/22pi7o/eli5_why_does_light_travel) Because **spacetime** is a two-dimensional vector of a set length; an object can travel through space and time. In photons' case, they travel entirely through space, and not at all through time (which gives the impression that nothing can ever be "faster" than light). For ordinary, massive objects, they mainly travel through time.
1. Snowflakes can in fact [be alike](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/23/science/who-ever-said-no-two-snowflakes-were-alike.html); the major factor is air turbulence, which can be controlled.
1. [The HyperLoop doesn't work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNFesa01llk) because the vacuum required is never going to be happen with all the stupid people around. (Imagine a loser poking a hole in the loop and everyone is screwed, or a dude throwing a stone into a turbine or something)
1. Steam can be used to light things on fire, simply by the definition of "steam is hot", if something is hot enough.
1. Solar eclipses occur [pretty much anywhere](http://nationaleclipse.com/maps/images/map_usa_21stcentury.png) on the map. Any curvature. Any direction. Toronto might see one in 2024.

Commit message:

new year old me, time to post yesterdaay

physics.md, after:

1. Olber's Paradox: since there are lots of stars in the sky, can nothing stops photons from coming to us, we should see a bright sky. But it's not the case because the universe is not infinitely old, and the photons from these stars don't have time to arrive to us yet.
1. Time dilation can also be thought of as [length contraction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVzDP8SMhPo). An object that is travelling at the speed of light towards you, also thinks you are travelling at light speed towards it. And you look just a fraction of your actual length dependent on your speed. This allows muons, which would normally only travel 500m before going away, to travel 10km worth of atmosphere.
1. Shutter *speed* and exposure *time*, being synonyms, are both units of time.
1. Noise reduction by averaging two photos only reduces noise by [the square root of the number of measurements](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_averaging).
1. The unit Kelvin does not come with the word "degrees" because it is considered absolute. Also, Since the triple point of water is at 273.16K but 0 degrees Celsius is 273.15K, [water actually boils at 99.974 degrees Celsius](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rjht4oAByCI).
1. For paranoid people who think [people can see them through walls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBFMsY5ZP0o), [EMF shielding paints](https://lessemf.com/paint.html) is for you!
1. [Cold fusion exists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aDfB3gnxRhc). Muons ("heavy electrons") hold nuclei 200x closer together, making them much more likely to fuse, which means it can occur at room temperature. Unfortunately the input energy to generate a muon is still higher than the energy you get back from fusion, so it's still useless right now.
1. Drag has a square relationship with velocity. This makes "making a huge gun that shoots people into space" inpractical.
1. Uranus (the 7th planet) is larger but lighter than Neptune (the 8th planet).
1. The original frequency of a signal is the fundamental frequency. Slight distortions of the original signal may also cause harmonic signals to be present. For example, if the fundamental frequency is 2 kHz, then the second harmonic signal would be 4 kHz and the third harmonic signal would be 6 kHz. etc.
1. A Decibel (dB) (`10⋅log₁₀(Power out/Power in)`) is indeed a deci of a Bel, which was named after a guy with the last name Bell.
1. Home voltages are between 120V to 240V. At least these are the figures reported by ISED Canada.
1. The voltage drop across a resistance can be measured with a volt meter across the terminals. If the current and resistance is known, voltage drop can be calculated using Ohms law: E = I R. (E =volts I = amps R= ohms).
1. The reciprocal of resistance is conductance. A circuit with high conductance has low resistance and vice versa.
1. Carbon is the most-commonly used material for building resistors.
1. The ionosphere is most ionised during midday, because that's when there is the most sun.
1. Taping windows during a hurricane [does little to protect people](https://science.howstuffworks.com/nature/climate-weather/storms/10-pieces-of-disaster-safety-advice-you-should-ignore3.htm), since glass is still glass, and taping only controls how big the shards are.
1. [Liquid or liquid-like cargo can sloth inside the ship, making the ship less stable.](https://theconversation.com/mystery-of-the-cargo-ships-that-sink-when-their-cargo-suddenly-liquefies-101158)
1. Capacitive touchscreens work with any conductor. They just need a big enough surface area to register as a proper finger.
1. A [pulse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse_%28signal_processing%29) that lasts literally no time is called a [Dirac pulse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirac_delta_function).
1. Venus' atmosphere is 90 Earth atmospheres' worth of pressure. [Most of the probes sent there imploded in midair](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJ5KV3rzuag).
1. GPS does not triangulate, says reddit man, it [trilaterates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trilateration). Trilateration does not involve the measurement of angles. "Where the signals overlap is where you are."
1. "Gravity warps spacetime", meaning [it figuratively warps the axes on which we make measurements](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jlTVIMOix3I). An apple thrown up falls down can be considered travelling linearly upward at a constant speed, had there not been a gravity distortion of spacetime.
1. A preferred rotation of planets came about when [all the planets going the other way got destroyed by the planets that go the other way](https://youtube.com/watch?v=MTY1Kje0yLg). Whichever direction with more planets wins.
1. The larger the opening of a vacuum cleaner, the more powerful the suction is, according to Mythbusters.
1. Sound travels 5x faster in water, but [more quietly](http://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/5qcr3p/-/dcy9qcn), so you rarely hear anything unless it was loud.
1. "Triangular sails allow ships to sail into the wind as well as with it." - How It's Made episode about sails
1. CT scans are still X ray.
1. It is impossible to exceed the speed of light in a vacuum, but it is possible to exceed the speed of light in water, which is about 0.75c. [When electrons do that](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherenkov_radiation) in a nuclear reactor, a blue glow is emitted.
1. "Fun fact, in space fuses don't work well because there is no gravity for the melted bit to fall away, so they continue to transmit electricity until the fuse metal boils away or the equipment fails."
1. Centripetal force is the force acting on the center. Centrifugal force is the force acting outward on the flying object.
1. The [Boomerang Nebula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boomerang_Nebula) is the coolest thing in the universe. Not Pokemon.
1. ["False vacuum"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_vacuum) refers to the theory that the current space is just a local minimum of energy, rather than the global minimum of energy, and that a random event might instantly turn the universe into one with a lower energy, destroying the current one.
1. If a bridge is [wavering about because of the people on it](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=gQK21572oSU&feature=youtu.be), then the people will try to adjust their stride to the movement, making the situation even worse.
1. A knuckle ball moves erratically because [it *isn't* spinning](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/50cg2n/hi_my_name_is_jack_im_14_years_old_and_i_love/d72zdj3).
1. [Superluminal communication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superluminal_communication) (communicating instantly through quantum entanglement) is believed to be impossible because, in a Lorentz-invariant theory, it could be used to [transmit information into the past](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tachyonic_antitelephone).
1. Running in the rain: given `total rain rate = (rate from top * seconds outdoors) + (rate from side * seconds walking)`, you get less wet if you stand still from time A to time B, and less wet if you run from point A to point B.
1. Space movies almost never depict explosions correctly. [There is no fire (or very little of it)](https://www.reddit.com/r/interestingasfuck/comments/90gkle/exploding_model_ships_cotton_balls_leds/e2qf461/), the fragments would travel at the same speed as the vehicle they came from, and it would quickly distinguish because there is no air.
1. To the moon, the Earth is a thing in the sky that stays in position all the time.
1. The ISS is set to retire in 2020. [Or 2024. Or 2028. Or...](https://www.google.com/search?q=The+ISS+is+set+to+retire+in)
1. The reason [(microwaving your own fucking hand)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WcOhd9ikNAw) is bad is because microwaves are primarily absorbed below the skin, thus bypassing the nerves. [You could be literally cooking your muscles without ever realizing it.](https://www.reddit.com/r/holdmybeaker/comments/3z2uoj/hmb_while_i_microwave_my_hand/cyiur98)
1. String theory, integrating gravity with the point-in-space ["standard model"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Model), is theoretically sound. [In 10-dimensional space](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Da-2h2B4faU). Maybe [it doesn't even make sense](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/String_theory_landscape).
1. 75% of the mass of the universe is hydrogen, and 25% helium. The rest are insignificant.
1. The fastest object to be propelled by man, apart from trivial things like particles, was a [manhole cover](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Plumbbob#Propulsion_of_steel_plate_cap), at 0.02% the speed of light.
1. ["...for every breath you take, there's a ... 99% ... chance that you're breathing in at least one molecule of Caesar's farts from his last day alive."](https://www.quora.com/What-percentage-of-breathable-air-on-earth-has-been-part-of-a-fart)
1. [Fish are more conductive than fresh water, but salt water is more conductive than fish.](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/3c3rd7/does_lightning_strike_the_ocean_if_so_does_it/) This makes electroshocking impossible in salt water.
1. Infrared cameras, including [one in a phone case](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Vc-69M-UWk), can reveal your PIN on any non-metal number pad, including the order of the digits, with 80% accuracy.
1. If the temperature gradient is large enough, power can be generated from the gradient using the [seeback effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermoelectric_effect#Seebeck_effect), which does not involve boiling water and turning a turbine.
1. Ultrasonic mosquito repellants [do not work](http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-20669080).
1. The event horizon is where escape velocity equals the speed of light. The photon sphere is where orbital velocity equals the speed of light.
1. UV light doesn't kill anything unless the light is applied for at least 10 seconds. The light also needs to be [UV-C](https://ultraviolet.com/what-is-germicidal-ultraviolet/), the wavelengths that kill germs.
1. A planet gets tidally locked, as a matter of fact, if it's too close to a star. Because, you know, the water is pulled towards the star. So you can't just look for Earth-like planets near the right temperature---[you need to look for the right size of star as well](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circumstellar_habitable_zone#Spectral_types_and_star-system_characteristics).
1. How fast a plane travels west/east depends on the wind direction, which is [not always faster from east to west](http://curious.astro.cornell.edu/about-us/40-our-solar-system/the-earth/climate-and-weather/68-why-do-airplanes-take-longer-to-fly-west-than-east-intermediate).
1. [Microwaving a half-cut piece of grape](https://www.minds.com/blog/view/177271/grape-microwave-and-pyrex) yields plasma.
1. [The 'speed of gravity' is the same as the speed of light.](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/2nukm0/which_is_faster_gravity_or_light/) If the sun goes away, we also have 8 minutes (ish) of time before we are affected gravitationally.
1. No free (Android) app corrects fisheye images because [it's hard](https://www.lonelyspeck.com/defish/).
1. By detecting the Earth's mass, magnetic field strength, and earthquake data, scientists conclude that the center of the Earth is made of solid iron, with liquid iron surrounding it.
1. We do not have enough nuclear weapons to blow up the moon. Even if we do, the moon would just clump back into a moon-size chunk.
1. [Why does light travel?](http://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/22pi7o/eli5_why_does_light_travel) Because **spacetime** is a two-dimensional vector of a set length; an object can travel through space and time. In photons' case, they travel entirely through space, and not at all through time (which gives the impression that nothing can ever be "faster" than light). For ordinary, massive objects, they mainly travel through time.
1. Snowflakes can in fact [be alike](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/23/science/who-ever-said-no-two-snowflakes-were-alike.html); the major factor is air turbulence, which can be controlled.
1. [The HyperLoop doesn't work](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNFesa01llk) because the vacuum required is never going to be happen with all the stupid people around. (Imagine a loser poking a hole in the loop and everyone is screwed, or a dude throwing a stone into a turbine or something)
1. Steam can be used to light things on fire, simply by the definition of "steam is hot", if something is hot enough.
1. Solar eclipses occur [pretty much anywhere](http://nationaleclipse.com/maps/images/map_usa_21stcentury.png) on the map. Any curvature. Any direction. Toronto might see one in 2024.
