politics.md, before:

- A "regime" is a systematic way of doing things imposed onto you. It can also be understood as authoritarianism. "Authoritarian regime" is a form of tautology.
- [Authoritarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authoritarianism) is no political freedom. Fascism is a hard form of authoritarianism and nationalism that has a dictator, suppresses the opposition, and strict control of the society/economy.
- Fascism is: totalitarian, almost always one party, usually one leader, often racist.
- This also means there can be a [totalitarian democracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Totalitarian_democracy), a state where you can vote but your votes do nothing, and a [civilian dictatorship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civilian_dictatorship), a state where people just follow a leader without the leader exercising military takeover.
- Prorogation is the process with which the prime minister can ask the monarch to override the parliament. If the parliament won't cooperate with (say, brexit), then the monarch may choose to suspend the parliament, which means the parliament cannot block a (say, a no-deal brexit) until the parliament is resumed. It is very, _very_ rarely used because it is messed up: ["In the 21st century, UK politics has been pushed so far (back) that we're resorting back to good old-fashioned monarchism. You don't be pro- or anti-No Deal to agree that, when the political fate of the country rests in the Queen's discretion, something has gone wrong."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OpvMud16gC8)
- China's constitution states that it "is a socialist state ("社会主义国家") under the [people's democratic dictatorship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_democratic_dictatorship) ("人民民主专政") led by the working class ("工人阶级领导的") and based on the alliance of workers and peasants ("以工农联盟为基础的")" and that the state organs "apply the principle of democratic centralism ("民主集中制"). "Dictatorial control by the party is necessary to prevent the government from collapsing into a ["dictatorship of the bourgeoisie"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberal_democracy#Dictatorship_of_the_bourgeoisie) ("资产阶级专政" / "财阀政治"), a liberal democracy ("自由民主制"), which, it is feared, would mean politicians acting in the interest of the bourgeoisie." [Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_democratic_dictatorship) So it all goes down to Marxism and Leninism ("liberal democracy had simply been used to give an illusion of democracy while maintaining the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie").
- What is "people's democratic dictatorship" then? Chairman Mao [said](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_People%27s_Democratic_Dictatorship) that it is ["对占全国人口绝大多数的人民实行民主，对极少数敌对分子实施专政"](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%BA%BA%E6%B0%91%E6%B0%91%E4%B8%BB%E4%B8%93%E6%94%BF), which means the government will serve the majority, but oppress the minority (in the traditional sense, this referred to the bourgeoisie rather than the Uighurs.)
- Democracy is when the people elect other people to represent them. [Populism](https://www.philstar.com/opinion/2019/09/08/1949884/populism-vs-democratic-socialism-vs-elitist-democracy) is when the people don't think these "other people" are representing them. If the horseshoe theory holds true, I hypothesise that both far-right Republicans and far-left Democrats can be government-fearing conspiracy nutjobs.
- Pretty sure [Democrats and Republicans](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/06/yes-polarization-is-asymmetric-and-conservatives-are-worse/373044/) cannot split into two countries because [the boundaries are hard to draw](https://www.reddit.com/r/Ask_Politics/comments/f3ntht/unironically_would_both_the_south_and_the_rest_of/). Asymmetric polarisation was quantified by how they vote (basically how often a party would vote for an opposing party). The short answer of the current situation is: they never switch sides, even if the other outcome sucks.
- In perfect communism, the government owns all companies. In socialism, this is not necessarily the case.

Commit message:

who knew a pandemic could mean so little to so many

politics.md, after:

- ["Disbanding the police force"](https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/police-reform-ideas-united-states-george-floyd-1.5601990) can either mean having no police at all (and money goes to community support), or not having a police force of their own, by having an even bigger police force policing the same place joined by nearby counties/cities/towns.
- A "regime" is a systematic way of doing things imposed onto you. It can also be understood as authoritarianism. "Authoritarian regime" is a form of tautology.
- [Authoritarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authoritarianism) is little to no political freedom. Fascism is a hard form of authoritarianism and nationalism that has a dictator, suppresses the opposition, and strict control of the society/economy.
- Fascism is: totalitarian, almost always one party, usually one leader, often racist.
- This also means there can be a [totalitarian democracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Totalitarian_democracy), a state where you can vote but your votes do nothing, and a [civilian dictatorship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civilian_dictatorship), a state where people just follow a leader without the leader exercising military takeover.
- Prorogation is the process with which the prime minister can ask the monarch to override the parliament. If the parliament won't cooperate with (say, brexit), then the monarch may choose to suspend the parliament, which means the parliament cannot block a (say, a no-deal brexit) until the parliament is resumed. It is very, _very_ rarely used because it is messed up: ["In the 21st century, UK politics has been pushed so far (back) that we're resorting back to good old-fashioned monarchism. You don't be pro- or anti-No Deal to agree that, when the political fate of the country rests in the Queen's discretion, something has gone wrong."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OpvMud16gC8)
- China's constitution states that it "is a socialist state ("社会主义国家") under the [people's democratic dictatorship](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_democratic_dictatorship) ("人民民主专政") led by the working class ("工人阶级领导的") and based on the alliance of workers and peasants ("以工农联盟为基础的")" and that the state organs "apply the principle of democratic centralism ("民主集中制"). "Dictatorial control by the party is necessary to prevent the government from collapsing into a ["dictatorship of the bourgeoisie"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberal_democracy#Dictatorship_of_the_bourgeoisie) ("资产阶级专政" / "财阀政治"), a liberal democracy ("自由民主制"), which, it is feared, would mean politicians acting in the interest of the bourgeoisie." [Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People%27s_democratic_dictatorship) So it all goes down to Marxism and Leninism ("liberal democracy had simply been used to give an illusion of democracy while maintaining the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie").
- What is "people's democratic dictatorship" then? Chairman Mao [said](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_the_People%27s_Democratic_Dictatorship) that it is ["对占全国人口绝大多数的人民实行民主，对极少数敌对分子实施专政"](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%BA%BA%E6%B0%91%E6%B0%91%E4%B8%BB%E4%B8%93%E6%94%BF), which means the government will serve the majority, but oppress the minority (in the traditional sense, this referred to the bourgeoisie rather than the Uyghurs, if the Uyghurs are currently oppressed.)
- Democracy is when the people elect other people to represent them. [Populism](https://www.philstar.com/opinion/2019/09/08/1949884/populism-vs-democratic-socialism-vs-elitist-democracy) is when the people don't think these "other people" are representing them. If the horseshoe theory holds true, I hypothesise that both far-right Republicans and far-left Democrats can be government-fearing conspiracy nutjobs.
- Pretty sure [Democrats and Republicans](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2014/06/yes-polarization-is-asymmetric-and-conservatives-are-worse/373044/) cannot split into two countries because [the boundaries are hard to draw](https://www.reddit.com/r/Ask_Politics/comments/f3ntht/unironically_would_both_the_south_and_the_rest_of/). Asymmetric polarisation was quantified by how they vote (basically how often a party would vote for an opposing party). The short answer of the current situation is: they never switch sides, even if the other outcome sucks.
- In perfect communism, the government owns all companies. In socialism, this is not necessarily the case.
