psychology.md, before:

- [Adult dyslexia](https://www.dyslexia.com/about-dyslexia/signs-of-dyslexia/common-characteristics-of-adult-dyslexia/) can exhibit itself in more ways than you think "letters": hating planning meetings, can't focus on work, gets lost easily, can't pass tests, enjoys video games, gets bored when reading, low self-esteem...
- Clothes labelled a certain size are always bigger than they say they are. [Vanity sizing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPeW0QeNMvY) helps increase self esteem, and directly increases your likelihood of buying the piece of clothing.
- [The overton window](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_v-hzc6blGI): [extreme things make less extreme things look normal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overton_window). This is dangerous for your perception of acceptable ideas. When Trump enjoys being on TV for supporting child rapists and sympathising with white supremacists, then tax breaks for the rich and taxing the poor don't look so bad now: thank fuck that's the only thing he's doing today.
- [Roger Sperry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_Wolcott_Sperry#Nobel_Prize), having won a Nobel prize for his split brain research ("language is on the left side of the brain, spatial reasoning on the right"), [cautioned against generalising his findings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tO8Kk0wIsrI). Obviously then, New York Times generalised his work in 1973, with a magazine titled ["We are left-brained or right-brained"](https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/the-theory-cognitive-modes/201401/left-brain-right-brain-wrong); Sperry never suggested that at all. The rest became pop culture and pseudoscience.
- [People would rather work with a lovable fool than a competent jerk, even if they don't admit it](https://www.bakadesuyo.com/2011/12/who-would-you-rather-have-on-your-team-a-love/). Competent jerks are [mostly avoided](https://www.bakadesuyo.com/2015/02/love-to-talk/), while lovable fools (the "friendly people who can't do anything" at your everyone workplace) is wanted more than jerks who work well.
- [The larger a city is, the faster people walk there](https://youtu.be/CFD5lfDSEDw). The exact cause is unknown, but age (younger people live in cities) and economy (places where "time is money") are the suspects.
- [As crime rate lowers, discussion about crime remains constant.](https://www.vox.com/recode/2019/5/7/18528014/fear-social-media-nextdoor-citizen-amazon-ring-neighbors)
- The [Hawthorne effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawthorne_effect) aka Observer effect: what people do changes if they know they are being watched. Different from [Quantum superposition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_superposition), where a particle is at two places at once until you look at it.
- The [vitality curve](https://www.theverge.com/2019/4/25/18516004/amazon-warehouse-fulfillment-centers-productivity-firing-terminations), or stack ranking, or forced ranking, or "rank and yank", is the practice where employees are ranked against their coworkers, and the bottom 10% are fired every year. An [_automated_ system that ranks and yanks](https://www.theverge.com/2019/4/25/18516004/amazon-warehouse-fulfillment-centers-productivity-firing-terminations) is an example of machines controlling humans.
- When someone tells you to do something, and you immediately dislike doing it because you are told to do something rather than out of your own free will, is a case of [reactance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reactance_%28psychology%29).
- (Uber blog) When pictures of people are shopped into cars, men rate women higher than women rate men. In this experiment, [the Bentley Continental was the only car found to make women rate the men higher than the same men in some other car.](https://newsroom.uber.com/economics-of-car-ownership/)
- In social situations, [people gauge how drunk they should be based on how drunk there peers are](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/5318ph/_/d7p4bba?context=1000). Therefore, all patrons should play the game were if one person is late to the table, everyone should pretend to be hammered when he/she arrives, so he/she will overdrink.
- If you stand for nothing, you fall for everything. Watch [a white man claiming to be a 7-year old Chinese female, and people accepting it.](http://www.informationliberation.com/?id=54643)
- [When accompanied by a slightly less attractive person who looks like you, you are more attractive to others around you.](http://www.ted.com/talks/dan_ariely_asks_are_we_in_control_of_our_own_decisions?language=en)
- [Talking to yourself in third person](https://research.msu.edu/talking-to-yourself-in-the-third-person-may-help-self-control/) may somehow help with self control.1. In almost every country (except Central African Republic), [giving money away makes you happier than if you kept it for yourself](https://www.ted.com/playlists/4/what_makes_you_happy). In the same video, spending money on others has better returns per dollar than spending money on yourself; people who think about how they can beneft other people are happier than people who think about how they can benefit themselves.
- The difference between an obedient son and a [momma's boy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mother%27s_boy) is that the latter is seen to give control of his own life to his mother.1. Kids at the age of two are called [terrible twos](https://www.parents.com/toddlers-preschoolers/development/behavioral/tackle-terrible-twos/) for the tantrums they tend to release at around that age, when they start to learn the ability to be frustrated with something they cannot do.
- [Those who have an IQ between 0 and 25 are idiots; IQs between 26 and 50 are considered imbeciles; and those who have an IQ between 51 and 70 are considered morons.](http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2010/03/the-words-moron-imbecile-and-idiot-mean-different-things/)
- Tons of people [have sex when they grieve](http://observer.com/2015/08/better-bed-than-dead-why-mouners-often-hook-up-at-funerals/), including in the backseat of a car _during_ a funeral. "Because I want to feel something else than this. It's either that or I go home and put my hand in the fire."
- Campus democrats are [found](https://pjmedia.com/trending/2017/04/28/study-finds-democrats-least-tolerant-of-opposing-views/) to be less tolerant than republicans, when it comes to opposing views.
- [Antidepressant use is linked to significant rise in suicide rates](http://thefreethoughtproject.com/suicide-epidemic-etc/).
- "So bored I want to kill someone" has a name: [cabin fever](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cabin_fever). The Shining was based on a kind of cabin fever.
- 90% of participants would switch the flip in the [trolley problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem), killing one instead of five. The percentage is much lower when that one person is one's lover.
- [Women are more likely to have an SF (rather than an ST)](https://www.pinterest.ca/pin/222646775302665394/) than men in their Myers-Briggs Type Indicators.
- [Watch your target partner (every so often), even when someone else in the group is talking.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3UODz5O8zo) This makes your target partner think you care about their reactions.
- If you are given 2+ choices instead of 1, [your expectation of the one you choose will go up](https://www.ted.com/talks/barry_schwartz_on_the_paradox_of_choice) (which means you will be less happy with it, even though you were given the choice to pick it). The take away is: choice isn't always good, and if you suck at cooking, don't ask your wife what she wants to eat.
- Even when [pretending to play the piano](http://steponerehab.com/how-you-can-rewire-your-brain/), the group had motor skills improve despite not having played the piano. This shows the brain's mental training has the ability to change the physical properties of itself.
- "Fear of losing something" is why free trials work (on normal people). You give them something for free. They are so scared of having it taken away from them that they will pay to keep it.
- [People view losses around twice as important as wins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBX-KulgJ1o). This is called loss aversion. That means people don't tend to take risks to engage in a series of wins that are 1.9x more likely. Lesson: take risks even if you think (not you know) are 1:1 likely to lose.
- Referral programs work only if it makes the referrer _feels smart_ about sharing a deal.
- If you want to control someone, [look at her forehead](https://m.imgur.com/gallery/HAn3e). If you want to marry someone, make sure she's a female (or whatever), then look at her chin.
- None of the people who successfully committed suicide report regretting their decision. This is called suvivorship bias.
- [People make extremely poor decisions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c-4flnuxNV4). When presented with a three-year income graph, they would rather pick one with a rising pay, rather than one with falling pay, even if the total pay is higher for the latter.
- It is [impossible to look at a scene and take a picture of it at the same time](http://www.psychologicalscience.org/index.php/news/releases/no-pictures-please-taking-photos-may-impede-memory-of-museum-tour.html) while still enjoying either.
- [The least tolerant _person_ wins](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?LeastFlexibleProtocolWins) as the highest common denominator.
- Children who did chores (have responsibility in general) [end up being more successful.](http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/58fgrg/_/)
- Amazon Mechnical Turk is an (unintended) [excellent source of social science research participants](https://daily.jstor.org/amazons-mechanical-turk-has-reinvented-research/).
- [Dogs ought not walk in front of the pack leader](https://www.cesarsway.com/dog-psychology/pack-leader/establishing-leadership-with-your-new-addition) (you).
- [Miller's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magical_Number_Seven,_Plus_or_Minus_Two), the psychological theory that the average human has 7 +/- 2 [short term memory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Short-term_memory) "slots", was later revised in 2001 by Cowan to be 4 +/- 1 units, so don't feel too bad if you don't hit 7.
- [How AYCE buffets save money](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-science-behind-behavior/201510/how-all-you-can-eat-buffets-use-psychology-make-money): "[if a] relatively expensive protein (say, a platter of steak) [is] surrounded by four or five cheaper veggie side dishes [...] studies show that [...] people tend to pick and consume more vegetables. [...] potatoes and rice trays are huge and filled to the brim thus encouraging large servings. [...] Compared to those in the highest BMI tertile (top third), those in the lowest one were more than twice as likely to browse the buffet first (71.0% vs. 33.3%), almost three times as likely to use chopsticks rather than a fork (23.5% vs. 8.7%), and chew more times (14.8 vs. 11.9)."
- People with a psychological disorder might not believe they have an illness.
- If you can't [draw a clock](https://www.littlethings.com/brain-on-fire/?utm_source=iqx6&utm_medium=Facebook), you might [have](http://neuro.psychiatryonline.org/doi/10.1176/appi.neuropsych.12070180) [issues](http://www.alzheimersreadingroom.com/2009/12/alzheimers-clock-draw-test-detect-signs.html).
- Marissa Mayer avoids burnout by preventing herself from being cynical, discouraged, in addition to finding her "rhythm", whatever it is for each person. If you work better at night, allow yourself to work at night.
- The [Sleeper Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sleeper_effect) refers to the observation that people who badmouth others are less trusted. (Specifically, candidates who tell others not to vote for another candidate will receive fewer votes than if he/she had otherwise said nothing)
- Contrary to popular belief that liars don't look at you, [they look at you more than the average person](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P_6vDLq64gE) to compensate for that myth.
- Compared to printed book readers, [it is less likely for an ebook reader to recall what was in the book.](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/the-national-book-review/drop-that-kindle-10-reaso_b_8234890.html)
- [If](http://www.xda-developers.com/the-paradox-of-choice-and-why-oems-dont-listen/) a democracy would have an overwhelming amount of individuals with low capability quotients, [simulations](http://maxwellsci.com/print/crjss/v2-255-261.pdf) suggest that such a population would choose low capability quotient Heads of State.
- "Daddy issues" typically refers to seeking attention from men in order to compensate for the attention (she) may not have received from (her) father.
- If someone is watching you, then if you yawn, they might as well.
- Users think that [skeleton loading screens are worse than not having one at all](https://www.viget.com/articles/a-bone-to-pick-with-skeleton-screens), and loading spinners make things load faster.
- The reported number of hours people spend on their phones per day varies wildly, from [less than one hour](https://www.appticles.com/blog/2016/03/mobile-vs-desktop-13-essential-user-behaviors/), [2.7 hours](http://blog.voxox.com/blog/bid/302400/Shocking-Americans-Spend-More-Time-Socializing-via-Mobile-Than-They-Do-Eating), to [5](https://www.statista.com/chart/12403/smartphone-addiction/). Just like [the number of people who drink alcohol](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2014/09/25/think-you-drink-a-lot-this-chart-will-tell-you/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.2d06f0503d2e), it should also be surprising to hear that [30% don't check their phones in the morning, 40% just go to bed without checking their phones, and 50% don't use their phones during weekends.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_phone_overuse#Social)
- People prefer letters that are in their names. "The [Letter Preference Task](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name-letter_effect) is the second-most popular method to measure implicit self-esteem, surpassed only by the Implicit Association Test."

Commit message:

what france does is france's business

psychology.md, after:

- [Whenever you read a piece of news, ask yourself: "Is this telling me what happened, or is it telling me what to think?"](https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/cszqmu/psa_whenever_you_read_a_piece_of_news_ask/) [If it makes you mad - fact check it. If it makes you happy - fact check it. If it will change your vote - fact check it. If you don't understand - look it up.](https://www.reddit.com/r/canada/comments/cszqmu/psa_whenever_you_read_a_piece_of_news_ask/exhz9rx/)
- [Propaganda games](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UP4_bMhZ4gA) The states has an army propaganda game called [America's Army](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/America%27s_Army) (not very creative). Even though you know it's a game, "they make us believe that we're ... deciding our destinies for ourselves. ... By making the goal of these games to kill (Muslims, the 'default FPS enemy'), (the game is) training people by fooling them into thinking they're choosing: it's _their choice_ to pull the trigger. They earned that headshot. They made that kill." Similar (Arab fighting Israel), (China fighting Japan) games exist.
- [Adult dyslexia](https://www.dyslexia.com/about-dyslexia/signs-of-dyslexia/common-characteristics-of-adult-dyslexia/) can exhibit itself in more ways than you think "letters": hating planning meetings, can't focus on work, gets lost easily, can't pass tests, enjoys video games, gets bored when reading, low self-esteem...
- Clothes labelled a certain size are always bigger than they say they are. [Vanity sizing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPeW0QeNMvY) helps increase self esteem, and directly increases your likelihood of buying the piece of clothing.
- [The overton window](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_v-hzc6blGI): [extreme things make less extreme things look normal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overton_window). This is dangerous for your perception of acceptable ideas. When Trump enjoys being on TV for supporting child rapists and sympathising with white supremacists, then tax breaks for the rich and taxing the poor don't look so bad now: thank fuck that's the only thing he's doing today.
- [Roger Sperry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roger_Wolcott_Sperry#Nobel_Prize), having won a Nobel prize for his split brain research ("language is on the left side of the brain, spatial reasoning on the right"), [cautioned against generalising his findings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tO8Kk0wIsrI). Obviously then, New York Times generalised his work in 1973, with a magazine titled ["We are left-brained or right-brained"](https://www.psychologytoday.com/ca/blog/the-theory-cognitive-modes/201401/left-brain-right-brain-wrong); Sperry never suggested that at all. The rest became pop culture and pseudoscience.
- [People would rather work with a lovable fool than a competent jerk, even if they don't admit it](https://www.bakadesuyo.com/2011/12/who-would-you-rather-have-on-your-team-a-love/). Competent jerks are [mostly avoided](https://www.bakadesuyo.com/2015/02/love-to-talk/), while lovable fools (the "friendly people who can't do anything" at your everyone workplace) is wanted more than jerks who work well.
- [The larger a city is, the faster people walk there](https://youtu.be/CFD5lfDSEDw). The exact cause is unknown, but age (younger people live in cities) and economy (places where "time is money") are the suspects.
- [As crime rate lowers, discussion about crime remains constant.](https://www.vox.com/recode/2019/5/7/18528014/fear-social-media-nextdoor-citizen-amazon-ring-neighbors)
- The [Hawthorne effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawthorne_effect) aka Observer effect: what people do changes if they know they are being watched. Different from [Quantum superposition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_superposition), where a particle is at two places at once until you look at it.
- The [vitality curve](https://www.theverge.com/2019/4/25/18516004/amazon-warehouse-fulfillment-centers-productivity-firing-terminations), or stack ranking, or forced ranking, or "rank and yank", is the practice where employees are ranked against their coworkers, and the bottom 10% are fired every year. An [_automated_ system that ranks and yanks](https://www.theverge.com/2019/4/25/18516004/amazon-warehouse-fulfillment-centers-productivity-firing-terminations) is an example of machines controlling humans.
- When someone tells you to do something, and you immediately dislike doing it because you are told to do something rather than out of your own free will, is a case of [reactance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reactance_%28psychology%29).
- (Uber blog) When pictures of people are shopped into cars, men rate women higher than women rate men. In this experiment, [the Bentley Continental was the only car found to make women rate the men higher than the same men in some other car.](https://newsroom.uber.com/economics-of-car-ownership/)
- In social situations, [people gauge how drunk they should be based on how drunk there peers are](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/5318ph/_/d7p4bba?context=1000). Therefore, all patrons should play the game were if one person is late to the table, everyone should pretend to be hammered when he/she arrives, so he/she will overdrink.
- If you stand for nothing, you fall for everything. Watch [a white man claiming to be a 7-year old Chinese female, and people accepting it.](http://www.informationliberation.com/?id=54643)
- [When accompanied by a slightly less attractive person who looks like you, you are more attractive to others around you.](http://www.ted.com/talks/dan_ariely_asks_are_we_in_control_of_our_own_decisions?language=en)
- [Talking to yourself in third person](https://research.msu.edu/talking-to-yourself-in-the-third-person-may-help-self-control/) may somehow help with self control.1. In almost every country (except Central African Republic), [giving money away makes you happier than if you kept it for yourself](https://www.ted.com/playlists/4/what_makes_you_happy). In the same video, spending money on others has better returns per dollar than spending money on yourself; people who think about how they can beneft other people are happier than people who think about how they can benefit themselves.
- The difference between an obedient son and a [momma's boy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mother%27s_boy) is that the latter is seen to give control of his own life to his mother.1. Kids at the age of two are called [terrible twos](https://www.parents.com/toddlers-preschoolers/development/behavioral/tackle-terrible-twos/) for the tantrums they tend to release at around that age, when they start to learn the ability to be frustrated with something they cannot do.
- [Those who have an IQ between 0 and 25 are idiots; IQs between 26 and 50 are considered imbeciles; and those who have an IQ between 51 and 70 are considered morons.](http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2010/03/the-words-moron-imbecile-and-idiot-mean-different-things/)
- Tons of people [have sex when they grieve](http://observer.com/2015/08/better-bed-than-dead-why-mouners-often-hook-up-at-funerals/), including in the backseat of a car _during_ a funeral. "Because I want to feel something else than this. It's either that or I go home and put my hand in the fire."
- Campus democrats are [found](https://pjmedia.com/trending/2017/04/28/study-finds-democrats-least-tolerant-of-opposing-views/) to be less tolerant than republicans, when it comes to opposing views.
- [Antidepressant use is linked to significant rise in suicide rates](http://thefreethoughtproject.com/suicide-epidemic-etc/).
- "So bored I want to kill someone" has a name: [cabin fever](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cabin_fever). The Shining was based on a kind of cabin fever.
- 90% of participants would switch the flip in the [trolley problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trolley_problem), killing one instead of five. The percentage is much lower when that one person is one's lover.
- [Women are more likely to have an SF (rather than an ST)](https://www.pinterest.ca/pin/222646775302665394/) than men in their Myers-Briggs Type Indicators.
- [Watch your target partner (every so often), even when someone else in the group is talking.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3UODz5O8zo) This makes your target partner think you care about their reactions.
- If you are given 2+ choices instead of 1, [your expectation of the one you choose will go up](https://www.ted.com/talks/barry_schwartz_on_the_paradox_of_choice) (which means you will be less happy with it, even though you were given the choice to pick it). The take away is: choice isn't always good, and if you suck at cooking, don't ask your wife what she wants to eat.
- Even when [pretending to play the piano](http://steponerehab.com/how-you-can-rewire-your-brain/), the group had motor skills improve despite not having played the piano. This shows the brain's mental training has the ability to change the physical properties of itself.
- "Fear of losing something" is why free trials work (on normal people). You give them something for free. They are so scared of having it taken away from them that they will pay to keep it.
- [People view losses around twice as important as wins](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBX-KulgJ1o). This is called loss aversion. That means people don't tend to take risks to engage in a series of wins that are 1.9x more likely. Lesson: take risks even if you think (not you know) are 1:1 likely to lose.
- Referral programs work only if it makes the referrer _feels smart_ about sharing a deal.
- If you want to control someone, [look at her forehead](https://m.imgur.com/gallery/HAn3e). If you want to marry someone, make sure she's a female (or whatever), then look at her chin.
- None of the people who successfully committed suicide report regretting their decision. This is called suvivorship bias.
- [People make extremely poor decisions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c-4flnuxNV4). When presented with a three-year income graph, they would rather pick one with a rising pay, rather than one with falling pay, even if the total pay is higher for the latter.
- It is [impossible to look at a scene and take a picture of it at the same time](http://www.psychologicalscience.org/index.php/news/releases/no-pictures-please-taking-photos-may-impede-memory-of-museum-tour.html) while still enjoying either.
- [The least tolerant _person_ wins](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?LeastFlexibleProtocolWins) as the highest common denominator.
- Children who did chores (have responsibility in general) [end up being more successful.](http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/58fgrg/_/)
- Amazon Mechnical Turk is an (unintended) [excellent source of social science research participants](https://daily.jstor.org/amazons-mechanical-turk-has-reinvented-research/).
- [Dogs ought not walk in front of the pack leader](https://www.cesarsway.com/dog-psychology/pack-leader/establishing-leadership-with-your-new-addition) (you).
- [Miller's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magical_Number_Seven,_Plus_or_Minus_Two), the psychological theory that the average human has 7 +/- 2 [short term memory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Short-term_memory) "slots", was later revised in 2001 by Cowan to be 4 +/- 1 units, so don't feel too bad if you don't hit 7.
- [How AYCE buffets save money](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-science-behind-behavior/201510/how-all-you-can-eat-buffets-use-psychology-make-money): "[if a] relatively expensive protein (say, a platter of steak) [is] surrounded by four or five cheaper veggie side dishes [...] studies show that [...] people tend to pick and consume more vegetables. [...] potatoes and rice trays are huge and filled to the brim thus encouraging large servings. [...] Compared to those in the highest BMI tertile (top third), those in the lowest one were more than twice as likely to browse the buffet first (71.0% vs. 33.3%), almost three times as likely to use chopsticks rather than a fork (23.5% vs. 8.7%), and chew more times (14.8 vs. 11.9)."
- People with a psychological disorder might not believe they have an illness.
- If you can't [draw a clock](https://www.littlethings.com/brain-on-fire/?utm_source=iqx6&utm_medium=Facebook), you might [have](http://neuro.psychiatryonline.org/doi/10.1176/appi.neuropsych.12070180) [issues](http://www.alzheimersreadingroom.com/2009/12/alzheimers-clock-draw-test-detect-signs.html).
- Marissa Mayer avoids burnout by preventing herself from being cynical, discouraged, in addition to finding her "rhythm", whatever it is for each person. If you work better at night, allow yourself to work at night.
- The [Sleeper Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sleeper_effect) refers to the observation that people who badmouth others are less trusted. (Specifically, candidates who tell others not to vote for another candidate will receive fewer votes than if he/she had otherwise said nothing)
- Contrary to popular belief that liars don't look at you, [they look at you more than the average person](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P_6vDLq64gE) to compensate for that myth.
- Compared to printed book readers, [it is less likely for an ebook reader to recall what was in the book.](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/the-national-book-review/drop-that-kindle-10-reaso_b_8234890.html)
- [If](http://www.xda-developers.com/the-paradox-of-choice-and-why-oems-dont-listen/) a democracy would have an overwhelming amount of individuals with low capability quotients, [simulations](http://maxwellsci.com/print/crjss/v2-255-261.pdf) suggest that such a population would choose low capability quotient Heads of State.
- "Daddy issues" typically refers to seeking attention from men in order to compensate for the attention (she) may not have received from (her) father.
- If someone is watching you, then if you yawn, they might as well.
- Users think that [skeleton loading screens are worse than not having one at all](https://www.viget.com/articles/a-bone-to-pick-with-skeleton-screens), and loading spinners make things load faster.
- The reported number of hours people spend on their phones per day varies wildly, from [less than one hour](https://www.appticles.com/blog/2016/03/mobile-vs-desktop-13-essential-user-behaviors/), [2.7 hours](http://blog.voxox.com/blog/bid/302400/Shocking-Americans-Spend-More-Time-Socializing-via-Mobile-Than-They-Do-Eating), to [5](https://www.statista.com/chart/12403/smartphone-addiction/). Just like [the number of people who drink alcohol](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2014/09/25/think-you-drink-a-lot-this-chart-will-tell-you/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.2d06f0503d2e), it should also be surprising to hear that [30% don't check their phones in the morning, 40% just go to bed without checking their phones, and 50% don't use their phones during weekends.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_phone_overuse#Social)
- People prefer letters that are in their names. "The [Letter Preference Task](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name-letter_effect) is the second-most popular method to measure implicit self-esteem, surpassed only by the Implicit Association Test."
