recipes.md, before:

## Breakfast

### Scrambled Eggs

- In a pot, break three **eggs**, 15g **butter**, and whisk.
- _Then_ turn stove on medium.
- Whisk while heating. Occasionally remove pot from stove to prevent overheating.
- Whisk until mixture is close to solid.
- _Then_ add **salt** and **pepper** to taste. This must be done at the end.

### Boiled eggs

> The best technique for boiling eggs is add eggs to cold water bring to boil, remove from heat once boiling starts, cover, let sit for [6 to](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X5oD_thIk3c) 15 minutes and add to cold water to stop the cooking process. That being said I don't know if it'll work with this weird Frankenegg. - /u/jerrbles

### [Omelette](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6vST9jh7vUM)

- Whisk three eggs in an "8" motion until foamy (not just runny).
- Add salt and pepper into the mixture.
- Heat pan with olive oil.
- Load mixture into pan. Do not move mixture.
- When the bottom is "sort of dry", lift it up and insert some butter.
- Cook some more.
- Add cheese, [mushrooms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ow9pGXT3KwY), or something.
- For authentic Jean Imbert experience, fold the thing in half when pouring it out.

### Zip-loc Omelette

From your broke ass-college student notes. May or may not work.

- Place 2 eggs in Ziploc bag
- Place shredded cheese, ham in Ziploc bag
- Add salt, pepper, garlic, whatever
- Boil in pot until solid

### Grilled cheese, [the proper way](http://www.seriouseats.com/2015/02/best-grilled-cheese-sandwich-recipe-variations.html)

- Salt pan and add butter. Or just salted butter.
- Set stove on low.
- Construct sandwich using two slices of bread, with one slice of cheese in between.
- Load sandwich into pan.
- Grill until cheese melts.

## Lunch

### [Spinach Pasta](http://m.allrecipes.com/recipe/16142/spinach-pasta-salad)

Mix the following, in any ratio you want:

- **Spinach**, 10 "oz"
- **Rotini** pasta, 12 "oz"
- **Feta Cheese**, 2 "oz"
- **Tomatoes**
- **Italian dressing**, 1 "cup"
- **Red onion**, 1

Suggested spices: **Basil**, **Black Olives**, **Lemon**, **Garlic**, **Pepper**

### Pho

- Defrost or thaw beef, or otherwise close to room temperature just before cooking.
- Keep **bean sprouts** as close to room temperature as possible.
- Make soup (from a **soup cube**, or go find yourself a recipe for that) and keep on boil. If the soup base does not contain garlic, add some **garlic**.
- Boil water in a separate pot (for the **rice noodles**).
- Chop **onions** (thin strips, peel properly), **green onions**, **basil**, **tripe**, **beef balls**, and **brisket** while you wait.
- Throw rice noodles into the water pot once boiling, then when the water boils again, throw tripe/ beef balls/brisket into the soup pot.
- When ready, strain out and rince rice noodles.
- Apply rice noodles into bowl.
- Apply onions and green onions.
- Apply beef and tripe.
- Pour soup over everything in the bowl.
- Apply beef balls and brisket.
- Serve with bean sprouts, basil, and **lime**.

### Shrimp salad

- Cut one red onion into strips.
- Chop one bunch of coriander into 2cm^3 pieces.
- Mince three cloves of garlic.
- Boil whatever amount of shrimp and squid you want. Chill in ice bath.
- Add one lime's worth of lime juice.
- Chop 0.25 limes into thin slices.
- Chop two Thai chilis.
- Combine all of the above in a bowl. Stir.
- Add sugar, chicken powder, fish sauce and soy sauce to taste.

## Dinner

### Stir fry

- Whatever it is you throw in, cook the meat first.

#### ["Black pepper chicken"](http://mycookinggallery.blogspot.com/2011/09/stir-fry-chicken-with-black-pepper.html)

- Secure a pack of black pepper sauce, or have oyster and soy sauces on hand. See other ingredients on the website above.
- Cut 250g chicken breast into strips.
- Cut 50g celery into strips.
- Cut 50g carrot into strips.
- Stir-fry chicken with oil until almost done. Add vegetables and stir fry for one more minute.

#### 炒麵

- Add ½ water to stove and heat stove to max
- When water boils, put in noodles
- Add salt
- Add meat and vegetables if present
- Continue boiling until water is almost all gone
- Add sauce if present
- Continue frying until water dries
- Add flavouring

#### 腐乳生菜

- 落油
- 落蒜頭
- 落三塼腐乳
- 落菜
- 炒到干上下堪蓋

#### Cauliflower ("富贵花")

- Fry up about 15g of lard. Or just use oil.
- When oil is hot, add chopped up garlic and some kind of green hot pepper (looks long). Fry until garlic is warm.
- Add cauliflower and continue frying. Add some water and cover until almost tender.
- Add soy sauce to taste.

#### 番茄炒蛋

- 炒蛋
- 落油
- 落少鹽
- 落多糖
- 落茄汁
- 煮腍
- 落蔥
- 熄火
- 落蛋

#### 芥蘭臘肉

- 開油
- 落姜落蒜頭落兩條臘腸炒香
- 落半斤芥蘭炒
- 落鹽落一湯勺酒

#### Stir "fried" fish

- Cut basa fish into small pieces.
- Spray oil into pan.
- Sauté garlic with oil.
- Put fish in.
- Put in some soy sauce and sugar.
- Put tofu in.
- Put in starch water.

#### [葡國雞](https://hk.lkk.com/zh-hk/recipes/portuguese-chicken)

- Prepare 250g of chicken.
- Add 15mL of oil and fry up the chicken until golden brown.
- Chop 50g of onions into slices.
- Chop 50g of carrots into slices.
- Chop 50g of potatoes into slices.
- Transfer chicken to a wok. Add 50mL of water and all slices into the wok, along with the "portuguese" sauce.
- Cook in medium heat until cooked. Should take 6 minutes.

### Steam / bake

#### "Ghetto sofrito"

Ingredients:

- Lots of black beans
- 5lb rice
- 1 bag onions
- a few bulbs garlic
- 1 box Goya Sazon

Procedures:

- Cook one cup of rice.
- Slice a small onion, smash up a clove of garlic
- Throw some olive oil or butter, onions and garlic into a HOT pan and fry them till the onion gets glassy. Throw some salt in there.
- Grind some pepper in.
- Toss in half a packet of Sazon and stir till you get a paste.
- Dump in your can of beans and stir.
- Add a pinch of Cayenne pepper
- Simmer
- Mix beans with rice.

#### Fish and tofu rice

- Remove fillet, cut into sashimi-sized slices roughly (cut *with* the grain for some reason).
- Apply 1tsp white pepper and some cooking wine and mix it up.
- Dice up the tofu to as big as you want them.
- Add cooking oil to pan.
- Add fish into pan while the pan is still cold, flipping constantly in low heat until half done.
- Drain liquids (to remove fish foam) and add tofu.
- Add water until tofu is half covered.
- Add 1 tsp sugar and some soy sauce.
- Continue cooking.
- Mix 1tbsp cornstarch with 2tsp chicken mix and add to boil.
- Serve with rice.

#### 蒸排骨/瘦肉

- 肉切件
- 用糖，鹽，豉油，酒，豆粉，油醃十五分鐘去蒸
- 落梅菜榨菜或蒜頭豆豉

#### Baked chicken

- Slice chicken open where you would like spices to penetrate.
- Marinate chicken with just about anything you want your chicken to taste like. This may include: sugar, salt, soy sauce (both kinds), oyster sauce, ginger, garlic, hua jiao.
- Let marinate overnight.
- Bake at 400 degrees (F) for 25 minutes.

#### Lamb rack

- Place entire rack in pressure cooker on high with several slices of ginger for 20 minutes.
- Rub rack with appropriate spices and cumin.
- If the rack is skin-on, fry skin side on high for a bit.
- Place in baking tray, using ribs to separate meat from the bottom of tray to prevent meat from getting soggy. Bake at 400 degrees (F) for 15 minutes.

#### Cha siu

- Prepare 1kg of pork shoulders.
- Chop pork into medium sized pieces.
- Poke holes on the pork's surface. Use a fork or something.
- Place pork into a marinating container.
- Place into container two slices of ginger cut into strips, and four cloves of garlic cut into strips (smashing the garlic first makes it easier to peel), enough oyster sauce to cover the meat's surface, enough soy sauce (both old and new types) to cover the meat's surface, and some honey.
- Give your meat a good massage.
- Marinate for three days.
- Take out and boil until cooked.
- Brush cha siu sauce and broil from bottom shelf (preferably) or bake from upper shelf from until crispy.

## Baked Salmon

- Score **descaled salmon** 2cm apart.
- Load [whatever **herbs and spices** you want](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkrMRk2qdqo) into the fish cavity.
- Coat with **olive oil**.
- Seal tightly with two layers of **aluminium foil**.
- Bake at 190 degrees C for 25-30 minutes.

## [Air fryer lobster tails](https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/276006/air-fryer-lobster-tails-with-lemon-garlic-butter/)

(Do we call this baking?)

- "Butterfly" two lobster tails. Butterflying means cutting it lengthwise from the top of the shell, but not all the way down (which would yield two halves).
- Place lobsters in air fryer, meat side up.
- Melt 60mL butter in a small pan.
- Add 15mL lemon juice (zest, if possible) and 1 clove of grated garlic. Heat for 30 seconds, or until garlic is tender.
- Transfer 30mL of the mixture into a new bowl, and brush onto the raw lobster. Clean / discard the brush.
- Season lobster with salt and pepper.
- Air fry at 380 degrees F for 5 to 7 minutes.
- Apply remaining butter to the lobster.
- Apply 5mL ("some") of chopped parsley.
- Serve with lemon wedges if you have any.

## [Air fryer beef cubes](https://organicallyblissful.com/recipe/air-fryer-spicy-cumin-lamb/)

For every pound:
- 1 tablespoon cumin.
- 0.5 tablespoons ground red chili.
- 0.5 tablespoons sesame seed.
- 0.5 teaspoons salt.
- 0.5 teaspoons ground garlic.
- 0.125 teaspoons Sichuan peppercorns.

Instructions:

- Mix ground spices together in some water. Or not water. Up to you.
- Coat meat in the spice mix.
- Air fry at 350F for 5-7 minutes. Do not overcrowd the airfryer.
- Flip the meat over and air fry at 350F for another 5-7 minutes, or until golden crispy.

## Chili

- Place beans in pot.
- Add tomatoes.
- Cook for an hour.
- Apply spices and serve.

## [Steamed eggs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_S9XLtKDx3g)

- For steaming eggs, [a good ratio of water to eggs would be 1.5:1](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_steamed_eggs).
- Add 1 egg to 195mL of water. For 2 eggs, use 250mL of water.
- Add 1 gram of salt per egg and whisk.
- Cover bowl with a plate. Steam in low heat for 6 minutes.
- Turn off heat, and keep steaming for 5 minutes.

## Steamed pork

- Soak the meat, and then wash it to remove the blood.
- Put the garlic in a bowl with the meat
- Put roughly the same amount of 豆豉 as garlic into the bowl
- Put yet another portion of chopped beans into the bowl (use the knife rocking technique).
- Put two three slices of ginger
- Add big pinch of sugar
- Steam until it looks done.

## Potatoes

- Wash potatoes.
- Poke small holes on potatoes to facilitate heating.
- Dip potatoes lightly in oil.
- Bake in 350F for 35 minutes.

### [Fries](http://aht.seriouseats.com/archives/2010/05/the-burger-lab-how-to-make-perfect-mcdonalds-style-french-fries.html)

- Chop fries.
- Freeze fries.
- Dip in white vinegar.
- Blanch in 75-degree water for 15 minutes.
- Somehow fry the fries twice. Exact temperatures and durations can be found in the post.

## Stew

Potato + tomato + carrot + beef = baby, you've got a stew goin

### Pork bone stew

    **Ingredients:**

    * Garlic
    * Ginger
    * Bayleaf
    * One star anise
    * Some Lotus roots or white radish
    * Soy sauce
    * A bit [of] vinegar
    * Sugar
    * Chili oil
    * Green onion

    **Method:**

    * Pressure cook 20 mins on more.
    * Mix anything below lotus roots as dipping sauce.

## Soup

Potato + onion + carrot + pork = baby, you've got a soup goin

### [Hao SiFu's pork bone broth](https://np.reddit.com/r/ProRevenge/comments/7v42dq/reuse_unfinished_soups_for_the_next_customer/dtpi3xj/?context=3)

    **Ingredients:**

    * 4-5 pounds of pork leg bones and knuckles
    * 1 pound of chicken bones (neck or wings work best)
    * 2 large onions – chopped in half
    * 6 cloves of garlic – lightly crushed
    * 1/2 Chinese white radish – chopped roughly (replace with carrots if unavailable in your area)
    * 1 thumb piece of ginger
    * Handful of dried shitake mushroom (pre-soaked)
    * Handful of conpoy (dried scallop)
    * 1 tpsn of crushed black pepper
    * Several dashes of Chinese rice wine

    **Method:**

    1. Boil the bones in a separate pot for at least 10 minutes. Remove from water and rinse carefully under tap water.
    2. Crack the leg bones along the middle (we used a giant cleaver)
    Place washed and cracked bones in clean pot with cold water and bring to boil.
    3. Add all other ingredients.
    4. Gently boil with lid slightly ajar for at least 8 hours (the longer the better) stirring occasionally. It will smell terrible for the first 2 hours for some reason – this is normal. I've also used pressure cooker which reduces the cooking time to about 2 hours. It's still very good but unfortunately you don't get the nice emulsification of the fats.
    5. The finished product will look like a rich, opaque, creamy white colour. Strain before serving.

    This broth is served with fresh noodles with vegetables and protein of your choice. Ensure you season with soy sauce or salt before serving. For example, I like it served with roast pork, bok choy and mushrooms with egg noodles.

### Hao SiFu's lazy apprentice's pork bone broth

    **Ingredients:**

    * any amount of pork and chicken bones
    * potato
    * carrots
    * onion diced
    * garlic
    * any kind of mushroom
    * black pepper

    **Method:**

    1. Add all ingredients. Boil for 3 hours.

### [Egg drop soup](https://youtu.be/oBK_gjfoXZ4)

- Beat two eggs to death.
- Add 1 cup of chicken stock and 1 cup of water to pot.
- Add some white part of spring onion.
- Boil.
- While waiting, mix 1.5 tbsp of cornstarch and 1.5 tbsp of water together.
- When the chicken stock is boiling.
- Slowly pour in the cornstarch water and stir.
- Slowly pour in the egg and stir.
- Add some salt and white pepper to taste.

### Wonton soup

- Devein the shrimp (both sides).
- Chop shrimp into small pieces.
- Mix with 3 Shrimp : 2 ground pork. Add soy sauce, salt, and sesame oil.
- Wrap wonton. First fold in half (meat does not move), fold the meat up (meat is flipped), and fold the two sides _up_ and stick.
- Boil with seaweed and serve.

### 雞湯

- 落兩只雞脾
- 落北萁黨參每樣五片
- 煲三個鐘

### "Yunnan Mixian"

This recipe relies on the Chinese cooking mantra of never measuring anything, called "少許" and "適量".

- Bring rice vermicelli (however much you want to eat) to a boil, and soak for 30 minutes.
- Brown ground pork.
- Add two cloves of minced garlic and continue browning until garlic is cooked.
- Add two tsp of "香辣醬", "黃豆醬", and "老干妈", respectively, plus some olive oil, and continue browning until the sauces are mixed.
- Prepare a bowl, and put in it a) one clove of crushed garlic, b) 5mL soy sauce, c) a dash of MSG, d) a dash of salt, e) a dash of white pepper powder, f) about 2g of sugar, and g) little bits of some green onions.
- Boil 50g of roughly-chopped napa for each bowl of noodles.
- Boil 1/4 of a tomato, chopped into orange-like slices, for each bowl of noodles.
- Finely chop 15g of 老坛酸菜 for each bowl of noodles.
- Cut into slices 50g of luncheon meat for each bowl of noodles.

### [Pea soup](https://www.theendlessmeal.com/pea-soup/)

 - Melt 15mL of butter.
 - In the butter, add 1 chopped onion, add 3 cloves of smashed garlic, and cook for 3 minutes (when the onion turns clear).
 - Add 1L of "stock" (presumably chicken or beef) into a pot.
 - Add 1.5L of peas... and if you have spinach and thyme, add some.
 - Bring to a simmer.
 - Turn off heat. Blend the mixture.
 - Return mixture back to pot and heat until it reaches the desired serving temperature.
 - Add sour cream as needed.

## Ingredients

### Hollandaise

- Unload three **egg yolks** into a [_bain marie_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bain-marie) (or any indirect heating utensil)
- Add 3g crushed **corriender seeds**.
- Squeeze 1/2 **pink grapefruit** (preferably; or any citrus fruit) into the mixture.
- Whisk until mixture thickens.
- Add 1 table spoon of **olive oil** and continue whisking.
- Add more **olive oil** until mixture doubles in volume.
- Add some more **grapefruit juice** and whisk for 30 more seconds.

### Onion

[Chopping an onion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCGS067s0zo):

- Cut it in half, or [into quarters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rZ2il_Amsc). Avoid the root.
- With the cut halves facing down, cut vertical strokes without touching the root.
- Holding the onion together. cut horizontal strokes without touching the root.
- Still holding the onion together. cut vertical strokes to yield cubes. Avoid the root.
- Discard the root.
- Season with paprika.

### [Evaporated milk](https://www.biggerbolderbaking.com/evaporated-milk-recipe/)

- Pour milk into a pot.
- Heat pot until milk begins to simmer. Keep at that temperature until desired consistency is reached.

Commit message:

Boy have I other things in life to take care of first

recipes.md, after:

## Breakfast

### Scrambled Eggs

- In a pot, break three **eggs**, 15g **butter**, and whisk.
- _Then_ turn stove on medium.
- Whisk while heating. Occasionally remove pot from stove to prevent overheating.
- Whisk until mixture is close to solid.
- _Then_ add **salt** and **pepper** to taste. This must be done at the end.

#### [Whampoa variant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONYflj0I2QI)

- Separate into whites and yolks (optional).
- Whisk whites until large bubbles appear, then mix yolks back in and scramble.
- Add 1/2 tsp salt, 1/2 tsp sugar, 1/8 tsp white pepper, 1/8 tsp MSG, 1/2 tsp shaoxing wine, (1 tsp cornstarch + 1 tsp water), and 1tsp sesame oil. Mix.
- Make wok / pan very hot; add 1.5 tbsp of lard. Butter also works.
- Apply egg mix to the wok / pan. The bottom will solidify quickly; scoop the cooked part to the side, and let the other side of the pan heat the rest of the yolk.
- Serve when egg stops flowing out of the cooked side.

### Boiled eggs

> The best technique for boiling eggs is add eggs to cold water bring to boil, remove from heat once boiling starts, cover, let sit for [6 to](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X5oD_thIk3c) 15 minutes and add to cold water to stop the cooking process. That being said I don't know if it'll work with this weird Frankenegg. - /u/jerrbles

### [Omelette](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6vST9jh7vUM)

- Whisk three eggs in an "8" motion until foamy (not just runny).
- Add salt and pepper into the mixture.
- Heat pan with olive oil.
- Load mixture into pan. Do not move mixture.
- When the bottom is "sort of dry", lift it up and insert some butter.
- Cook some more.
- Add cheese, [mushrooms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ow9pGXT3KwY), or something.
- For authentic Jean Imbert experience, fold the thing in half when pouring it out.

### Zip-loc Omelette

From your broke ass-college student notes. May or may not work.

- Place 2 eggs in Ziploc bag
- Place shredded cheese, ham in Ziploc bag
- Add salt, pepper, garlic, whatever
- Boil in pot until solid

### Grilled cheese, [the proper way](http://www.seriouseats.com/2015/02/best-grilled-cheese-sandwich-recipe-variations.html)

- Salt pan and add butter. Or just salted butter.
- Set stove on low.
- Construct sandwich using two slices of bread, with one slice of cheese in between.
- Load sandwich into pan.
- Grill until cheese melts.

## Lunch

### [Spinach Pasta](http://m.allrecipes.com/recipe/16142/spinach-pasta-salad)

Mix the following, in any ratio you want:

- **Spinach**, 10 "oz"
- **Rotini** pasta, 12 "oz"
- **Feta Cheese**, 2 "oz"
- **Tomatoes**
- **Italian dressing**, 1 "cup"
- **Red onion**, 1

Suggested spices: **Basil**, **Black Olives**, **Lemon**, **Garlic**, **Pepper**

### Pho

- Defrost or thaw beef, or otherwise close to room temperature just before cooking.
- Keep **bean sprouts** as close to room temperature as possible.
- Make soup (from a **soup cube**, or go find yourself a recipe for that) and keep on boil. If the soup base does not contain garlic, add some **garlic**.
- Boil water in a separate pot (for the **rice noodles**).
- Chop **onions** (thin strips, peel properly), **green onions**, **basil**, **tripe**, **beef balls**, and **brisket** while you wait.
- Throw rice noodles into the water pot once boiling, then when the water boils again, throw tripe/ beef balls/brisket into the soup pot.
- When ready, strain out and rince rice noodles.
- Apply rice noodles into bowl.
- Apply onions and green onions.
- Apply beef and tripe.
- Pour soup over everything in the bowl.
- Apply beef balls and brisket.
- Serve with bean sprouts, basil, and **lime**.

### Shrimp salad

- Cut one red onion into strips.
- Chop one bunch of coriander into 2cm^3 pieces.
- Mince three cloves of garlic.
- Boil whatever amount of shrimp and squid you want. Chill in ice bath.
- Add one lime's worth of lime juice.
- Chop 0.25 limes into thin slices.
- Chop two Thai chilis.
- Combine all of the above in a bowl. Stir.
- Add sugar, chicken powder, fish sauce and soy sauce to taste.

## Dinner

### Stir fry

- Whatever it is you throw in, cook the meat first.

#### ["Black pepper chicken"](http://mycookinggallery.blogspot.com/2011/09/stir-fry-chicken-with-black-pepper.html)

- Secure a pack of black pepper sauce, or have oyster and soy sauces on hand. See other ingredients on the website above.
- Cut 250g chicken breast into strips.
- Cut 50g celery into strips.
- Cut 50g carrot into strips.
- Stir-fry chicken with oil until almost done. Add vegetables and stir fry for one more minute.

#### 炒麵

- Add ½ water to stove and heat stove to max
- When water boils, put in noodles
- Add salt
- Add meat and vegetables if present
- Continue boiling until water is almost all gone
- Add sauce if present
- Continue frying until water dries
- Add flavouring

#### 腐乳生菜

- 落油
- 落蒜頭
- 落三塼腐乳
- 落菜
- 炒到干上下堪蓋

#### Cauliflower ("富贵花")

- Fry up about 15g of lard. Or just use oil.
- When oil is hot, add chopped up garlic and some kind of green hot pepper (looks long). Fry until garlic is warm.
- Add cauliflower and continue frying. Add some water and cover until almost tender.
- Add soy sauce to taste.

#### 番茄炒蛋

- 炒蛋
- 落油
- 落少鹽
- 落多糖
- 落茄汁
- 煮腍
- 落蔥
- 熄火
- 落蛋

#### 芥蘭臘肉

- 開油
- 落姜落蒜頭落兩條臘腸炒香
- 落半斤芥蘭炒
- 落鹽落一湯勺酒

#### Stir "fried" fish

- Cut basa fish into small pieces.
- Spray oil into pan.
- Sauté garlic with oil.
- Put fish in.
- Put in some soy sauce and sugar.
- Put tofu in.
- Put in starch water.

#### [葡國雞](https://hk.lkk.com/zh-hk/recipes/portuguese-chicken)

- Prepare 250g of chicken.
- Add 15mL of oil and fry up the chicken until golden brown.
- Chop 50g of onions into slices.
- Chop 50g of carrots into slices.
- Chop 50g of potatoes into slices.
- Transfer chicken to a wok. Add 50mL of water and all slices into the wok, along with the "portuguese" sauce.
- Cook in medium heat until cooked. Should take 6 minutes.

### Steam / bake

#### "White cut chicken" 白切雞

- Get 1 yellow chicken (黄油雞). The white ones can do, but won't taste as good.
- Rub chicken with 2 spoons of salt. Wait 2 hours.
- Steam the chicken on a plate, without plastic wrap, for 25 minutes.
- Let rest until cool. Cut into appropriately-sized pieces with scissors (or a meat cleaver, but not a normal knife) and serve.

#### "Ghetto sofrito"

Ingredients:

- Lots of black beans
- 5lb rice
- 1 bag onions
- a few bulbs garlic
- 1 box Goya Sazon

Procedures:

- Cook one cup of rice.
- Slice a small onion, smash up a clove of garlic
- Throw some olive oil or butter, onions and garlic into a HOT pan and fry them till the onion gets glassy. Throw some salt in there.
- Grind some pepper in.
- Toss in half a packet of Sazon and stir till you get a paste.
- Dump in your can of beans and stir.
- Add a pinch of Cayenne pepper
- Simmer
- Mix beans with rice.

#### Fish and tofu rice

- Remove fillet, cut into sashimi-sized slices roughly (cut *with* the grain for some reason).
- Apply 1tsp white pepper and some cooking wine and mix it up.
- Dice up the tofu to as big as you want them.
- Add cooking oil to pan.
- Add fish into pan while the pan is still cold, flipping constantly in low heat until half done.
- Drain liquids (to remove fish foam) and add tofu.
- Add water until tofu is half covered.
- Add 1 tsp sugar and some soy sauce.
- Continue cooking.
- Mix 1tbsp cornstarch with 2tsp chicken mix and add to boil.
- Serve with rice.

#### 蒸排骨/瘦肉

- 肉切件
- 用糖，鹽，豉油，酒，豆粉，油醃十五分鐘去蒸
- 落梅菜榨菜或蒜頭豆豉

#### Baked chicken

- Slice chicken open where you would like spices to penetrate.
- Marinate chicken with just about anything you want your chicken to taste like. This may include: sugar, salt, soy sauce (both kinds), oyster sauce, ginger, garlic, hua jiao.
- Let marinate overnight.
- Bake at 400 degrees (F) for 25 minutes.

#### Lamb rack

- Place entire rack in pressure cooker on high with several slices of ginger for 20 minutes.
- Rub rack with appropriate spices and cumin.
- If the rack is skin-on, fry skin side on high for a bit.
- Place in baking tray, using ribs to separate meat from the bottom of tray to prevent meat from getting soggy. Bake at 400 degrees (F) for 15 minutes.

#### Cha siu

- Prepare 1kg of pork shoulders.
- Chop pork into medium sized pieces.
- Poke holes on the pork's surface. Use a fork or something.
- Place pork into a marinating container.
- Place into container two slices of ginger cut into strips, and four cloves of garlic cut into strips (smashing the garlic first makes it easier to peel), enough oyster sauce to cover the meat's surface, enough soy sauce (both old and new types) to cover the meat's surface, and some honey.
- Give your meat a good massage.
- Marinate for three days.
- Take out and boil until cooked.
- Brush cha siu sauce and broil from bottom shelf (preferably) or bake from upper shelf from until crispy.

## Baked Salmon

- Score **descaled salmon** 2cm apart.
- Load [whatever **herbs and spices** you want](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkrMRk2qdqo) into the fish cavity.
- Coat with **olive oil**.
- Seal tightly with two layers of **aluminium foil**.
- Bake at 190 degrees C for 25-30 minutes.

## [Air fryer lobster tails](https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/276006/air-fryer-lobster-tails-with-lemon-garlic-butter/)

(Do we call this baking?)

- "Butterfly" two lobster tails. Butterflying means cutting it lengthwise from the top of the shell, but not all the way down (which would yield two halves).
- Place lobsters in air fryer, meat side up.
- Melt 60mL butter in a small pan.
- Add 15mL lemon juice (zest, if possible) and 1 clove of grated garlic. Heat for 30 seconds, or until garlic is tender.
- Transfer 30mL of the mixture into a new bowl, and brush onto the raw lobster. Clean / discard the brush.
- Season lobster with salt and pepper.
- Air fry at 380 degrees F for 5 to 7 minutes.
- Apply remaining butter to the lobster.
- Apply 5mL ("some") of chopped parsley.
- Serve with lemon wedges if you have any.

## [Air fryer beef cubes](https://organicallyblissful.com/recipe/air-fryer-spicy-cumin-lamb/)

For every pound:
- 1 tablespoon cumin.
- 0.5 tablespoons ground red chili.
- 0.5 tablespoons sesame seed.
- 0.5 teaspoons salt.
- 0.5 teaspoons ground garlic.
- 0.125 teaspoons Sichuan peppercorns.

Instructions:

- Mix ground spices together in some water. Or not water. Up to you.
- Coat meat in the spice mix.
- Air fry at 350F for 5-7 minutes. Do not overcrowd the airfryer.
- Flip the meat over and air fry at 350F for another 5-7 minutes, or until golden crispy.

## Chili

- Place beans in pot.
- Add tomatoes.
- Cook for an hour.
- Apply spices and serve.

## [Steamed eggs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_S9XLtKDx3g)

- For steaming eggs, [a good ratio of water to eggs would be 1.5:1](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_steamed_eggs).
- Add 1 egg to 195mL of water. For 2 eggs, use 250mL of water.
- Add 1 gram of salt per egg and whisk.
- Cover bowl with a plate. Steam in low heat for 6 minutes.
- Turn off heat, and keep steaming for 5 minutes.

## Steamed pork

- Soak the meat, and then wash it to remove the blood.
- Put the garlic in a bowl with the meat
- Put roughly the same amount of 豆豉 as garlic into the bowl
- Put yet another portion of chopped beans into the bowl (use the knife rocking technique).
- Put two three slices of ginger
- Add big pinch of sugar
- Steam until it looks done.

## Potatoes

- Wash potatoes.
- Poke small holes on potatoes to facilitate heating.
- Dip potatoes lightly in oil.
- Bake in 350F for 35 minutes.

### [Fries](http://aht.seriouseats.com/archives/2010/05/the-burger-lab-how-to-make-perfect-mcdonalds-style-french-fries.html)

- Chop fries.
- Freeze fries.
- Dip in white vinegar.
- Blanch in 75-degree water for 15 minutes.
- Somehow fry the fries twice. Exact temperatures and durations can be found in the post.

## Stew

Potato + tomato + carrot + beef = baby, you've got a stew goin

### Pork bone stew

    **Ingredients:**

    * Garlic
    * Ginger
    * Bayleaf
    * One star anise
    * Some Lotus roots or white radish
    * Soy sauce
    * A bit [of] vinegar
    * Sugar
    * Chili oil
    * Green onion

    **Method:**

    * Pressure cook 20 mins on more.
    * Mix anything below lotus roots as dipping sauce.

## Soup

Potato + onion + carrot + pork = baby, you've got a soup goin

### [Hao SiFu's pork bone broth](https://np.reddit.com/r/ProRevenge/comments/7v42dq/reuse_unfinished_soups_for_the_next_customer/dtpi3xj/?context=3)

    **Ingredients:**

    * 4-5 pounds of pork leg bones and knuckles
    * 1 pound of chicken bones (neck or wings work best)
    * 2 large onions – chopped in half
    * 6 cloves of garlic – lightly crushed
    * 1/2 Chinese white radish – chopped roughly (replace with carrots if unavailable in your area)
    * 1 thumb piece of ginger
    * Handful of dried shitake mushroom (pre-soaked)
    * Handful of conpoy (dried scallop)
    * 1 tpsn of crushed black pepper
    * Several dashes of Chinese rice wine

    **Method:**

    1. Boil the bones in a separate pot for at least 10 minutes. Remove from water and rinse carefully under tap water.
    2. Crack the leg bones along the middle (we used a giant cleaver)
    Place washed and cracked bones in clean pot with cold water and bring to boil.
    3. Add all other ingredients.
    4. Gently boil with lid slightly ajar for at least 8 hours (the longer the better) stirring occasionally. It will smell terrible for the first 2 hours for some reason – this is normal. I've also used pressure cooker which reduces the cooking time to about 2 hours. It's still very good but unfortunately you don't get the nice emulsification of the fats.
    5. The finished product will look like a rich, opaque, creamy white colour. Strain before serving.

    This broth is served with fresh noodles with vegetables and protein of your choice. Ensure you season with soy sauce or salt before serving. For example, I like it served with roast pork, bok choy and mushrooms with egg noodles.

### Hao SiFu's lazy apprentice's pork bone broth

    **Ingredients:**

    * any amount of pork and chicken bones
    * potato
    * carrots
    * onion diced
    * garlic
    * any kind of mushroom
    * black pepper

    **Method:**

    1. Add all ingredients. Boil for 3 hours.

### [Egg drop soup](https://youtu.be/oBK_gjfoXZ4)

- Beat two eggs to death.
- Add 1 cup of chicken stock and 1 cup of water to pot.
- Add some white part of spring onion.
- Boil.
- While waiting, mix 1.5 tbsp of cornstarch and 1.5 tbsp of water together.
- When the chicken stock is boiling.
- Slowly pour in the cornstarch water and stir.
- Slowly pour in the egg and stir.
- Add some salt and white pepper to taste.

### Wonton soup

- Devein the shrimp (both sides).
- Chop shrimp into small pieces.
- Mix with 3 Shrimp : 2 ground pork. Add soy sauce, salt, and sesame oil.
- Wrap wonton. First fold in half (meat does not move), fold the meat up (meat is flipped), and fold the two sides _up_ and stick.
- Boil with seaweed and serve.

### 雞湯

- 落兩只雞脾
- 落北萁黨參每樣五片
- 煲三個鐘

### "Yunnan Mixian"

This recipe relies on the Chinese cooking mantra of never measuring anything, called "少許" and "適量".

- Bring rice vermicelli (however much you want to eat) to a boil, and soak for 30 minutes.
- Brown ground pork.
- Add two cloves of minced garlic and continue browning until garlic is cooked.
- Add two tsp of "香辣醬", "黃豆醬", and "老干妈", respectively, plus some olive oil, and continue browning until the sauces are mixed.
- Prepare a bowl, and put in it a) one clove of crushed garlic, b) 5mL soy sauce, c) a dash of MSG, d) a dash of salt, e) a dash of white pepper powder, f) about 2g of sugar, and g) little bits of some green onions.
- Boil 50g of roughly-chopped napa for each bowl of noodles.
- Boil 1/4 of a tomato, chopped into orange-like slices, for each bowl of noodles.
- Finely chop 15g of 老坛酸菜 for each bowl of noodles.
- Cut into slices 50g of luncheon meat for each bowl of noodles.

### [Pea soup](https://www.theendlessmeal.com/pea-soup/)

 - Melt 15mL of butter.
 - In the butter, add 1 chopped onion, add 3 cloves of smashed garlic, and cook for 3 minutes (when the onion turns clear).
 - Add 1L of "stock" (presumably chicken or beef) into a pot.
 - Add 1.5L of peas... and if you have spinach and thyme, add some.
 - Bring to a simmer.
 - Turn off heat. Blend the mixture.
 - Return mixture back to pot and heat until it reaches the desired serving temperature.
 - Add sour cream as needed.

## Ingredients

### Hollandaise

- Unload three **egg yolks** into a [_bain marie_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bain-marie) (or any indirect heating utensil)
- Add 3g crushed **corriender seeds**.
- Squeeze 1/2 **pink grapefruit** (preferably; or any citrus fruit) into the mixture.
- Whisk until mixture thickens.
- Add 1 table spoon of **olive oil** and continue whisking.
- Add more **olive oil** until mixture doubles in volume.
- Add some more **grapefruit juice** and whisk for 30 more seconds.

### Onion

[Chopping an onion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCGS067s0zo):

- Cut it in half, or [into quarters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rZ2il_Amsc). Avoid the root.
- With the cut halves facing down, cut vertical strokes without touching the root.
- Holding the onion together. cut horizontal strokes without touching the root.
- Still holding the onion together. cut vertical strokes to yield cubes. Avoid the root.
- Discard the root.
- Season with paprika.

### [Evaporated milk](https://www.biggerbolderbaking.com/evaporated-milk-recipe/)

- Pour milk into a pot.
- Heat pot until milk begins to simmer. Keep at that temperature until desired consistency is reached.
