ruby.md, before:

1. [The meta-programming and object injection that makes (Ruby) easy to install 1,000 gems into your project without a single line of configuration, is exactly why it's hard to debug. It also gives you zero confidence or guarantees about what you've just added to your work and whether it all plays nice together. You may have just peed in your own kiddie pool. The magic of active record, the crazy levels of duck typing and the expressiveness of ruby, are exactly why it runs poorly even on your development box, and costs so much in server fees when you try to scale. It's why you have to build a caching strategy in as a requirement from first line of code.](https://medium.com/@deathdisco/today-i-accept-that-rails-is-yesterday-s-software-b5af35c9af39#.fodj13lg5)
1. [Ruby has clearly lost the language war.](https://stackoverflow.blog/2017/09/06/incredible-growth-python/) "We’re not looking to contribute to any language war," David added.
1. In Ruby, you put docstrings outside.
1. Methods do not require `()` to call. WTF?
1. Methods that end in `?` are boolean functions by [pure convention](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1345855).
1. And because boolean functions are purely by convention, this also means they can accept parameters: `@foo.bar?('baz')`
1. `?F` apparently means [`"F".ord`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1878406) for Ruby < 1.9, and just `"F"` in Ruby 1.9+.
1. `!` after a method applies changes the current object. So `a.upcase!` means `a = a.upcase`.
1. `.chomp`, which often follows `gets`, removes the extra line at the end of console inputs.
1. "Ruby prioritizes programmer productivity over program optimization."
1. `if`, `elsif`, `else`, `end`, because `elseif` is just too long (but `elif` is too Python, presumably). No need for `:` at the end of each condition.
  * Because if statements can be multi-line, it can be written in any form of indentation: `b = a? 5 else 3 end`, where `end` is required if you didn't oneliner it.
1. Integer instantiation is `Integer(something)`.
1. `a_string.gsub(/regex/, "what")`
1. `while` is the same everywhere, except you need `end`. No `:` needed.
1. `until` is the backwards `while` (executing while the check is false)
1. There's no `++`, but there's still `+= 1`.
1. `Hash.new(0)` creates a `defaultdict`-like object, whose initial values are `0`s.
1. `Hash` has [some `sort_by` thing](http://gayleforce.wordpress.com/2009/09/28/ruby-sorting-1-when-and-why-to-use-sort_by/) which has some weird `|a, b| b` array syntax.
1. `nil` is all lower case.
1. `an_array.each { |x| puts "#{x}\n" }` is totally possible.
1. Hashes (dicts): the syntax is `{ a => b}`
1. All ruby methods are available via `something.methods.sort`.
1. All ruby methods specific to an object are avaiable via `something.own_methods.sort`.
1. The Ruby REPL is `irb`.
1. [Ruby doesn't have functions](http://stackoverflow.com/a/4294660/1558430); to get a reference to a callable without calling it, use `func_ref = method(:func_name)` or `method_ref = instance.method(:method_name)`, and call with `func_ref.call`.
1. It would have been nice to have said that Ruby method names are also symbols.
1. Any class method automatically has a `self` (also `@`; see below) for the instance, but you can [rebind](http://ruby-doc.org/core-1.9.3/UnboundMethod.html) it with `reference_to_method.bind(some_other_instance)`. It doesn't mean the instance now has that method; it just means you are calling the method with another instance.
1. [`@foo` directly accesses an attribute.](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1693319). `self.foo` accesses it first through a `def foo`, if one exists, then falls back to `@foo`.
1. Results from the last expression is returned.
1. Ruby's `foldr` is called [`inject`](http://blog.jayfields.com/2008/03/ruby-inject.html) (if you use it this way).
1. [The `do` block has lower precedence than the bracket block syntax](http://stackoverflow.com/a/2122457/1558430), allowing you to do concise loops in some cases:

```
1.upto 3 do |x|
    puts x
end

1.upto 3 { |x| puts x }
# SyntaxError: compile error
```

1. From above, "A [`do`] block is like an anonymous function or lambda. The variable between *pipe characters* is the parameter for this block."
1. I think functions can themselves be instances. `def something ... ... @names` is perfectly valid syntax.
1. `def`s need `end`s.
1. The Ruby equivalent of `if __name__ == '__FILE__'` is `if __FILE__ == $0`.
1. `some_obj.respond_to?(attribute)` is a special method that checks if an object has that attribute (or method, which is about the same for Ruby).
1. Having a `attr_accessor :name` line in a class creates automatic getters and setters for every instance's `name`, or `@name`.
1. `def initialize` is the... uh... coffeescript? php? version for Ruby.
1. Since `nil` is Ruby's `None`, `.nil?` is the same as `(... is None)`.
1. You *can* have double quotes in interpolated, doubled quoted strings! [The guide](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/quickstart/3/)'s example was `puts "Goodbye #{@names.join(", ")}.  Come back soon!"`
1. `Class.new(...)` returns an instance. Because of Ruby's *awesome* bracket omission, `Class.new` also returns one, with no parameters given to the constructor.
1. To be consistent with their OOP philosophy, `sprintf` is a global function.
1. In a class, putting `private` somewhere in it [makes *everything below that line* private](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Ruby_Programming/Syntax/Classes#Private).
1. Assuming `:method` is the syntax used to access the class method called `method`, `private :method` marks it as private, if put *underneath* the declaration for `method`.
1. [The "double at" (`@@foo`)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5890118/what-does-variable-mean-in-ruby) is a class variable, making your previous point false.
1. [The "double less than" (`class << instance`)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6182628/ruby-class-inheritance-what-is-double-less-than) adds all methods in that class to a particular instance of some other class, probably because there is no `instance.extend(class.__dict__)` equivalent.
1. Instead of `self.__class__`, it is [`self.class`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/2527911/1558430). `self` is not a named parameter.
1. Functions are not hoisted.
1. Whitespace in blocks doesn't matter. Well, because there is a required `end` keyword.
1. `func do |arg1| ... end` is essentially `genr = func(); (cb(arg1) for arg1 in genr)`, if `func` is a generator function that uses `yield` (and only works with `yield`).
1. Lists can turn into the `func` above by calling `.each`, i.e.`[1,2,3,4].each do |i| ...`
1. ["With blocks"]() are also done using blocks in Ruby:

```
File.open('somefile.txt') do |f|
    puts f.readline
end
```

1. One-liner if statements have the following syntax: `condition ? true : false` (no if, no else)
1. One-liner blocks are also possible. `[1,2,3,4].map{|i| i + 1}` is a block that is acting as a lambda.
1. List filters using `select` and blocks: `[1,2,3,4].select{|i| i % 2 == 0}`
  * `a_list.select(&:foo?)` uses `&` and `Symbol#to_proc` to filter out items in the list whose method `foo?` isn't falsy.
1. Because methods are immediately invoked, obtaining an attribute from it is also an invocation. However:

```
sentence.split.length  # fine
sentence.split().length()  # fine
sentence().split.length  # not fine, strings (or maybe some things just) aren't callable
```

1. The last-run statement in a function is the return value. Guess where coffeescript got this from!
1. There's apparently a `for ... in` syntax, but [nobody uses it, claims redditor.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/1k74jb/ruby_vs_python/cbm62q6)
1. `print` is a thing, and `puts` is a thing too. Their equivalents are `print foo,` and `print foo`.
1. `is_a` and `kind_of` are the same method: true if the object is an instance of that class or its subclasses. [`instance_of`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/3893305/1558430), on the other hand, checks for its exact class.
1. [Symbols](http://www.troubleshooters.com/codecorn/ruby/symbols.htm#_What_do_symbols_look_like) are pairs of ids and immutable strings. They look like `:this`, and have performance benefits because of their immutability.
1. Use symbols [whenever you would use a constant](http://stackoverflow.com/a/16621092/1558430), including [dictionary keys](https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/blob/master/lib/will_paginate.rb).
1. In Ruby 1.9+, [dictionaries whose keys are symbols don't need to use the `=>` association syntax](http://breakthebit.org/post/8453341914/ruby-19-and-the-new-hash-syntax). Use the more "normal" syntax instead: `{simon: "Talek", lorem: "Ipsum"}`
1. Not until Ruby 2.2 did it [GC symbols](https://bugs.ruby-lang.org/issues/7791), creating security issues for Rails sites.
1. The `gem` thing lets you list available versions if you provide two flags: `gem list package_name --remote --all`
1. `[a..b]` includes the `b`th element. `[a...b]` does not. This makes `[a...b]` the [formally correct slicing operator](https://blog.nelhage.com/2015/08/indices-point-between-elements/).
1. There is the `||=` operator, which is actually intuitive: `a = a || ...`
1. [`&:`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1961030/ruby-ampersand-colon-shortcut) is the pluck shortcut, which means `|thing| thing.foo`. "The `&` calls `Symbol#to_proc` on the object, and passes it as a block to the method." `:foo`, which is a Symbol, is what gets passed into the method.
1. [Ruby also does the whole `defined?` thing](https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/blob/master/init.rb) that PHP does. `defined?` appears to be a top-level global, and accepts any class in any namespace.
1. Ruby try/catch/else/finally blocks are named [`begin/rescue/else/ensure`](http://rubylearning.com/satishtalim/ruby_exceptions.html). Because there is no `as`, the exception is assigned with the association syntax (that's right) `rescue SomeExceptionClass => some_variable`
1. There are also `(*positional_arguments)`, `(default=value)`, and  in Ruby 2. There is also `(required_keyword_argument:,  **everything_else)` in Ruby 2.1.
1. A special version of double splat is `(**_)`, which means you ignore all unexpected arguments.
1. Call a function with keyword arguments using a colon instead of equals. `foo(bar: 100)`
1. This also means the minimum Ruby version you should run is 2.
1. `super` (the word) is `super()`.
1. [Single-quoted strings are like Python's `r"raw strings"`.](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/ruby-from-other-languages/to-ruby-from-python/)
1. "Python prevents modification of built-ins — Ruby does not."
1. Only `false` and `nil` are falsy. Everything else, including `0` and `0.0`, is truthy.
1. There is no `del`, but you can set something to `nil`. Referencing something that has been set to `nil` never raises `NameError`, however.
1. [`=~` is "matches"](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/46584/what-should-a-python-developer-know-while-learning-ruby): `if mystring =~ /^\s+hello word!/`
1. [A constant is a thing starting with upper case](http://www.local-guru.net/blog/2009/2/10/ruby-symbols-vs-string-vs-constant) and they can be modified. That's right.
1. [The `require()` method is quite similar to `load()`, but it’s meant for a different purpose. You use `load()` to execute code, and you use `require()` to import libraries.](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/318144/what-is-the-difference-between-include-and-require-in-ruby) [If you `extend` a class with a module, that means you're "bringing in" the module's methods as class methods. If you `include` a class with a module, that means you're "bringing in" the module's methods as instance methods.](http://stackoverflow.com/a/14212020)\
1. `3.times { ... }` means "do this 3 times".
1. If a function accepts nothing, its declaration brackets are optional.
1. [Modules are not classes](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/151505/difference-between-a-class-and-a-module). Modules are mixin-equivalents, whereas classes can be instantiated.
1. Ruby is a lot more heavily influenced by Perl than Python is, which is why its syntax is both more powerful and moronic at the same time.
1. [`p foo`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1255324/p-vs-puts-in-ruby) == `puts foo.inspect`
1. Slicing a string from some index until the end is not `[n..]`, but [`[n..-1]`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3611586/ruby-string-slice-index-strn-infinity), for some reason.
1. Similarly, slicing a string from the beginning is not `[..n]` either. It is `[0..n]`.
1. The parameter used when making a new Hash (dict) is the default value for any keys, default being `nil`. `Hash.new(0)` will have all defaults being 0.
1. Like in python, positional/keyword arguments can have a default only if the arguments before them are also positional/keyword.
1. [Apparently](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/39988613/how-do-i-destructure-a-range-in-ruby) to get the first and last elements from a range (which is not an array for some reason), you just do `array.begin` and `array.end`. That will go through all elements in the range, but what do you know.
1. It is tradition for Rails to [muck with builtin types](http://stackoverflow.com/a/15926695/1558430) so that the integer `1` can have the method `day`.
1. `gem` is really nice, because `gem fetch abc` downloads the package, and `gem install abc.gem` (with the `.gem`) installs it.

Commit message:

remove some instances of idiot and moron (github is a safe space so only i am a moron)

ruby.md, after:

1. [The meta-programming and object injection that makes (Ruby) easy to install 1,000 gems into your project without a single line of configuration, is exactly why it's hard to debug. It also gives you zero confidence or guarantees about what you've just added to your work and whether it all plays nice together. You may have just peed in your own kiddie pool. The magic of active record, the crazy levels of duck typing and the expressiveness of ruby, are exactly why it runs poorly even on your development box, and costs so much in server fees when you try to scale. It's why you have to build a caching strategy in as a requirement from first line of code.](https://medium.com/@deathdisco/today-i-accept-that-rails-is-yesterday-s-software-b5af35c9af39#.fodj13lg5)
1. [Ruby has clearly lost the language war.](https://stackoverflow.blog/2017/09/06/incredible-growth-python/) "We’re not looking to contribute to any language war," David added.
1. In Ruby, you put docstrings outside.
1. Methods do not require `()` to call. WTF?
1. Methods that end in `?` are boolean functions by [pure convention](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1345855).
1. And because boolean functions are purely by convention, this also means they can accept parameters: `@foo.bar?('baz')`
1. `?F` apparently means [`"F".ord`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1878406) for Ruby < 1.9, and just `"F"` in Ruby 1.9+.
1. `!` after a method applies changes the current object. So `a.upcase!` means `a = a.upcase`.
1. `.chomp`, which often follows `gets`, removes the extra line at the end of console inputs.
1. "Ruby prioritizes programmer productivity over program optimization."
1. `if`, `elsif`, `else`, `end`, because `elseif` is just too long (but `elif` is too Python, presumably). No need for `:` at the end of each condition.
  * Because if statements can be multi-line, it can be written in any form of indentation: `b = a? 5 else 3 end`, where `end` is required if you didn't oneliner it.
1. Integer instantiation is `Integer(something)`.
1. `a_string.gsub(/regex/, "what")`
1. `while` is the same everywhere, except you need `end`. No `:` needed.
1. `until` is the backwards `while` (executing while the check is false)
1. There's no `++`, but there's still `+= 1`.
1. `Hash.new(0)` creates a `defaultdict`-like object, whose initial values are `0`s.
1. `Hash` has [some `sort_by` thing](http://gayleforce.wordpress.com/2009/09/28/ruby-sorting-1-when-and-why-to-use-sort_by/) which has some weird `|a, b| b` array syntax.
1. `nil` is all lower case.
1. `an_array.each { |x| puts "#{x}\n" }` is totally possible.
1. Hashes (dicts): the syntax is `{ a => b}`
1. All ruby methods are available via `something.methods.sort`.
1. All ruby methods specific to an object are avaiable via `something.own_methods.sort`.
1. The Ruby REPL is `irb`.
1. [Ruby doesn't have functions](http://stackoverflow.com/a/4294660/1558430); to get a reference to a callable without calling it, use `func_ref = method(:func_name)` or `method_ref = instance.method(:method_name)`, and call with `func_ref.call`.
1. It would have been nice to have said that Ruby method names are also symbols.
1. Any class method automatically has a `self` (also `@`; see below) for the instance, but you can [rebind](http://ruby-doc.org/core-1.9.3/UnboundMethod.html) it with `reference_to_method.bind(some_other_instance)`. It doesn't mean the instance now has that method; it just means you are calling the method with another instance.
1. [`@foo` directly accesses an attribute.](http://stackoverflow.com/a/1693319). `self.foo` accesses it first through a `def foo`, if one exists, then falls back to `@foo`.
1. Results from the last expression is returned.
1. Ruby's `foldr` is called [`inject`](http://blog.jayfields.com/2008/03/ruby-inject.html) (if you use it this way).
1. [The `do` block has lower precedence than the bracket block syntax](http://stackoverflow.com/a/2122457/1558430), allowing you to do concise loops in some cases:

```
1.upto 3 do |x|
    puts x
end

1.upto 3 { |x| puts x }
# SyntaxError: compile error
```

1. From above, "A [`do`] block is like an anonymous function or lambda. The variable between *pipe characters* is the parameter for this block."
1. I think functions can themselves be instances. `def something ... ... @names` is perfectly valid syntax.
1. `def`s need `end`s.
1. The Ruby equivalent of `if __name__ == '__FILE__'` is `if __FILE__ == $0`.
1. `some_obj.respond_to?(attribute)` is a special method that checks if an object has that attribute (or method, which is about the same for Ruby).
1. Having a `attr_accessor :name` line in a class creates automatic getters and setters for every instance's `name`, or `@name`.
1. `def initialize` is the... uh... coffeescript? php? version for Ruby.
1. Since `nil` is Ruby's `None`, `.nil?` is the same as `(... is None)`.
1. You *can* have double quotes in interpolated, doubled quoted strings! [The guide](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/quickstart/3/)'s example was `puts "Goodbye #{@names.join(", ")}.  Come back soon!"`
1. `Class.new(...)` returns an instance. Because of Ruby's *awesome* bracket omission, `Class.new` also returns one, with no parameters given to the constructor.
1. To be consistent with their OOP philosophy, `sprintf` is a global function.
1. In a class, putting `private` somewhere in it [makes *everything below that line* private](http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Ruby_Programming/Syntax/Classes#Private).
1. Assuming `:method` is the syntax used to access the class method called `method`, `private :method` marks it as private, if put *underneath* the declaration for `method`.
1. [The "double at" (`@@foo`)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5890118/what-does-variable-mean-in-ruby) is a class variable, making your previous point false.
1. [The "double less than" (`class << instance`)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6182628/ruby-class-inheritance-what-is-double-less-than) adds all methods in that class to a particular instance of some other class, probably because there is no `instance.extend(class.__dict__)` equivalent.
1. Instead of `self.__class__`, it is [`self.class`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/2527911/1558430). `self` is not a named parameter.
1. Functions are not hoisted.
1. Whitespace in blocks doesn't matter. Well, because there is a required `end` keyword.
1. `func do |arg1| ... end` is essentially `genr = func(); (cb(arg1) for arg1 in genr)`, if `func` is a generator function that uses `yield` (and only works with `yield`).
1. Lists can turn into the `func` above by calling `.each`, i.e.`[1,2,3,4].each do |i| ...`
1. ["With blocks"]() are also done using blocks in Ruby:

```
File.open('somefile.txt') do |f|
    puts f.readline
end
```

1. One-liner if statements have the following syntax: `condition ? true : false` (no if, no else)
1. One-liner blocks are also possible. `[1,2,3,4].map{|i| i + 1}` is a block that is acting as a lambda.
1. List filters using `select` and blocks: `[1,2,3,4].select{|i| i % 2 == 0}`
  * `a_list.select(&:foo?)` uses `&` and `Symbol#to_proc` to filter out items in the list whose method `foo?` isn't falsy.
1. Because methods are immediately invoked, obtaining an attribute from it is also an invocation. However:

```
sentence.split.length  # fine
sentence.split().length()  # fine
sentence().split.length  # not fine, strings (or maybe some things just) aren't callable
```

1. The last-run statement in a function is the return value. Guess where coffeescript got this from!
1. There's apparently a `for ... in` syntax, but [nobody uses it, claims redditor.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Python/comments/1k74jb/ruby_vs_python/cbm62q6)
1. `print` is a thing, and `puts` is a thing too. Their equivalents are `print foo,` and `print foo`.
1. `is_a` and `kind_of` are the same method: true if the object is an instance of that class or its subclasses. [`instance_of`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/3893305/1558430), on the other hand, checks for its exact class.
1. [Symbols](http://www.troubleshooters.com/codecorn/ruby/symbols.htm#_What_do_symbols_look_like) are pairs of ids and immutable strings. They look like `:this`, and have performance benefits because of their immutability.
1. Use symbols [whenever you would use a constant](http://stackoverflow.com/a/16621092/1558430), including [dictionary keys](https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/blob/master/lib/will_paginate.rb).
1. In Ruby 1.9+, [dictionaries whose keys are symbols don't need to use the `=>` association syntax](http://breakthebit.org/post/8453341914/ruby-19-and-the-new-hash-syntax). Use the more "normal" syntax instead: `{simon: "Talek", lorem: "Ipsum"}`
1. Not until Ruby 2.2 did it [GC symbols](https://bugs.ruby-lang.org/issues/7791), creating security issues for Rails sites.
1. The `gem` thing lets you list available versions if you provide two flags: `gem list package_name --remote --all`
1. `[a..b]` includes the `b`th element. `[a...b]` does not. This makes `[a...b]` the [formally correct slicing operator](https://blog.nelhage.com/2015/08/indices-point-between-elements/).
1. There is the `||=` operator, which is actually intuitive: `a = a || ...`
1. [`&:`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1961030/ruby-ampersand-colon-shortcut) is the pluck shortcut, which means `|thing| thing.foo`. "The `&` calls `Symbol#to_proc` on the object, and passes it as a block to the method." `:foo`, which is a Symbol, is what gets passed into the method.
1. [Ruby also does the whole `defined?` thing](https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/blob/master/init.rb) that PHP does. `defined?` appears to be a top-level global, and accepts any class in any namespace.
1. Ruby try/catch/else/finally blocks are named [`begin/rescue/else/ensure`](http://rubylearning.com/satishtalim/ruby_exceptions.html). Because there is no `as`, the exception is assigned with the association syntax (that's right) `rescue SomeExceptionClass => some_variable`
1. There are also `(*positional_arguments)`, `(default=value)`, and  in Ruby 2. There is also `(required_keyword_argument:,  **everything_else)` in Ruby 2.1.
1. A special version of double splat is `(**_)`, which means you ignore all unexpected arguments.
1. Call a function with keyword arguments using a colon instead of equals. `foo(bar: 100)`
1. This also means the minimum Ruby version you should run is 2.
1. `super` (the word) is `super()`.
1. [Single-quoted strings are like Python's `r"raw strings"`.](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/ruby-from-other-languages/to-ruby-from-python/)
1. "Python prevents modification of built-ins — Ruby does not."
1. Only `false` and `nil` are falsy. Everything else, including `0` and `0.0`, is truthy.
1. There is no `del`, but you can set something to `nil`. Referencing something that has been set to `nil` never raises `NameError`, however.
1. [`=~` is "matches"](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/46584/what-should-a-python-developer-know-while-learning-ruby): `if mystring =~ /^\s+hello word!/`
1. [A constant is a thing starting with upper case](http://www.local-guru.net/blog/2009/2/10/ruby-symbols-vs-string-vs-constant) and they can be modified. That's right.
1. [The `require()` method is quite similar to `load()`, but it’s meant for a different purpose. You use `load()` to execute code, and you use `require()` to import libraries.](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/318144/what-is-the-difference-between-include-and-require-in-ruby) [If you `extend` a class with a module, that means you're "bringing in" the module's methods as class methods. If you `include` a class with a module, that means you're "bringing in" the module's methods as instance methods.](http://stackoverflow.com/a/14212020)\
1. `3.times { ... }` means "do this 3 times".
1. If a function accepts nothing, its declaration brackets are optional.
1. [Modules are not classes](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/151505/difference-between-a-class-and-a-module). Modules are mixin-equivalents, whereas classes can be instantiated.
1. Ruby is a lot more heavily influenced by Perl than Python is, and Perl was (at some point, possibly even trying to be interoperable with shell), which is why its syntax is both more powerful and horrible at the same time.
1. [`p foo`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1255324/p-vs-puts-in-ruby) == `puts foo.inspect`
1. Slicing a string from some index until the end is not `[n..]`, but [`[n..-1]`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3611586/ruby-string-slice-index-strn-infinity), for some reason.
1. Similarly, slicing a string from the beginning is not `[..n]` either. It is `[0..n]`.
1. The parameter used when making a new Hash (dict) is the default value for any keys, default being `nil`. `Hash.new(0)` will have all defaults being 0.
1. Like in python, positional/keyword arguments can have a default only if the arguments before them are also positional/keyword.
1. [Apparently](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/39988613/how-do-i-destructure-a-range-in-ruby) to get the first and last elements from a range (which is not an array for some reason), you just do `array.begin` and `array.end`. That will go through all elements in the range, but what do you know.
1. It is tradition for Rails to [muck with builtin types](http://stackoverflow.com/a/15926695/1558430) so that the integer `1` can have the method `day`.
1. `gem` is really nice, because `gem fetch abc` downloads the package, and `gem install abc.gem` (with the `.gem`) installs it.
