sql.md, before:

# Any SQL

- `TRUNCATE some table` differs from `DELETE * FROM some table` in that the `TRUNCATE` statement does not leave behind transaction logs, and thus cannot be rolled back. (Here's a trivia you will never use again)
- SQL is more than 40 years old and is still used today, not because it's great, but because [it just works, 90% of the time](http://blog.sqlizer.io/posts/sql-43/), makes [RDBMS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database_management_system) and SQL solved problems in computing.
- You don't need to select any database to `SELECT 1;`. This is a poor man's way of checking if the database connection is working.
- "Technically, PRIMARY KEY is merely a combination of UNIQUE and NOT NULL".
- Turns out inverting values is pretty easy, even without intermediate values. `UPDATE table SET col = (CASE WHEN col = 0 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END);`
- `SELECT (SELECT ...) as resultColumnName;` creates a [temp table](https://leetcode.com/problems/second-highest-salary/), which guarantees the select to return a row of `null` instead of no rows.
- You can't [have `WHERE` clauses in a `GROUP BY` query](https://leetcode.com/problems/duplicate-emails/), but you _can_ turn that into a temp table and have a `WHERE` clause filter on that. Note: **temp tables must have an alias**, i.e. `SELECT (SELECT ...) as alias`.
- `%` is a thing, so selecting odd-numbered IDs is really `WHERE id % 2 = 1` or something like that.
- If a foreign key field is [unique and nullable at the same time](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7573590/can-a-foreign-key-be-null-and-or-duplicate), it can contain at most one `NULL`. If you really want to avoid that null, and can afford having an M2M relationship rather than an O2M relationship, you can [use an intersection table](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/335284/disadvantages-of-using-a-nullable-foreign-key-instead-of-creating-an-intersectio), where an intermediary table links up two other tables.
- [Sharding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shard_%28database_architecture%29) is putting different rows in the "same" table in different database nodes. Horizontal [partitioning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partition_%28database%29) puts different rows in different tables in the same database.

# MySQL

- To install MySQL server, client, and python adapters: `sudo apt-get install mysql-common mysql-client-4.4 libmysqlclent-dev mysql-server-5.5`
- To start/stop/restart MySQL server: `(/etc/init.d/mysql OR /etc/init.d/mysqld) start/srestart`
- [Tables are stored in `/var/lib/mysql`](http://forums.mysql.com/read.php?10,239450,239465#msg-239465), and, if you are using InnoDB, the file is actually called `ibdata`.

- Create a database: [`CREATE DATABASE ebdb;`](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/create-database.html)
  (after which you can run `python manage.py syncdb` if that happens to be your thing)
- Select a database: `USE ebdb;` (which isn't `SELECT ebdb`, for some reason)
- Delete a database: [`DROP DATABASE ebdb;`](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/drop-database.html)
- Show list of tables: `SHOW TABLES;`

- Create an index: **TODO**

- Show tables by schema: `SELECT table_name, engine FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES WHERE TABLE_SCHEMA = '(dbname)';`
- Show table columns: `SHOW COLUMNS FROM table_name;`
- Show table info: `DESCRIBE table_name;`
- Change table engine: [`ALTER TABLE table_name ENGINE=InnoDB;`](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/converting-tables-to-innodb.html)
- Show table engines (and other info): `SHOW TABLE STATUS;`
- Show the SQL needed to create an existing table: [`SHOW CREATE TABLE table_name;`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/5615783/1558430)
- Show last `InnoDB` foreign key error: [`SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS;`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/179501/1558430)
- `SET unique_checks=0;` and `SET foreign_key_checks = 0;` does not help you drop a foreign key constraint.

* Create a user: `CREATE USER 'ebroot'@'localhost' [IDENTIFIED BY 'some_pass'];` (different from `CREATE USER 'ebroot';` and `CREATE USER 'ebroot'@'*';`)
* Create a user using a pre-hashed password: `CREATE USER 'ebroot'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'abcdef123456';`
* Give a user privileges: `GRANT ALL ON ebdb.* TO 'ebroot'@'localhost';`

* MySQL [does not](http://stackoverflow.com/a/10474104/1558430) support transactional schema alters at any time.
* Amazon [does not](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/message.jspa?messageID=153017#) allow SSH into RDS instances.
* [Why is MySQL's default collation latin1_swedish_ci?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6769901/why-is-mysqls-default-collation-latin1-swedish-ci)
* [No `FULL (OUTER) JOIN` in MySQL?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4796872/how-to-do-a-full-outer-join-in-mysql#4796911) WTF? (`LEFT JOIN` works as expected. )

# PostgreSQL

- Get client version: `psql --version`
- [Get server version](https://stackoverflow.com/a/13733884/1558430): `pg_config --version`, or `SELECT version();`
- Logging into `psql`: `psql dbname username`
- Logging into `psql` to a specific DB: `psql -h somedb.com dbname username`
- [`~/.pgpass`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16791494/1558430) is activated only if you also specify the username and database name.
- Backup a database: [`pg_dumpall > outfile`](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/backup-dump.html#BACKUP-DUMP-ALL) OR `pg_dump specific_db > outfile`
- [Transfer/Migrate a database to another postgres version](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.0/static/migration.html): `pg_dumpall -p 5432 | psql -d postgres -p 6543` (old port to new port)
- Compress a backup: `pg_dump dbname | gzip > outfile.gz`
- Restore a backup: `psql -f outfile postgres` (the keyword `postgres` here is necessary only if you load into a [large cluster](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/backup-dump.html#BACKUP-DUMP-ALL))
- Restore a compressed backup: `gunzip -c outfile.gz | psql dbname`
- Delete a database: (`sudo su - owner_unix_user`), then run `dropdb dbname -Uowner_unix_user -W`. Alternatively, in psql, switch to a database (`\c postgres;`), then `DROP DATABASE dbname;` to delete.
- [Postgres does not take performance hits from string lengths.](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.2/static/datatype-character.html) Putting it in reverse, it also means it cannot be sped up by shortening strings.
- [`varying` string type has no length limit](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2904991/postgresql-character-varying-length-limit)
- `\c`: show the current user and database. `\c dbname` also switches to that database.
- `\d`: list tables (and indexes!)
- [`\d+ tablename`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/109334/1558430): describe the table.
- `\l`: list databases.
- Create an index: `create index concurrently if not exists index_name on table_name (ordered_fields);`
- Drop an index: `drop index concurrently if exists index_name;`
- Rename an index: `alter index old_index_name rename to new_index_name;`
- Monitoring psql: `sudo tail -n 50 -f /var/log/postgresql/postgresql-9.1-main.log`
- Setting monitoring flags: [`log_min_duration_statement = 0`, and `log_statement = all`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/12670828/1558430)
- Running a SQL file: [`psql -U username -d myDataBase -a -f myInsertFile`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/12085561/1558430)
- Re-index a table: `REINDEX TABLE tablename;` (doesn't work if the index is broken, which is _retarded_
  `REINDEX TABLE tablename force;` doesn't work.
- [Read the docs](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Things_to_find_out_about_when_moving_from_MySQL_to_PostgreSQL). Postgres strings must be enclosed with single quotes. Double quotes only work for system identifiers.
- You can choose the type of index to build. The default is B tree.
- According to [this pgcon video](https://www.pgcon.org/2016/schedule/events/934.en.html), GIN indices are good for full text search, and GiST indices are good for full text search, and ranges in general (not just geospatial stuff).
- [Want to write a bank app? Don't read-modify-update.](http://blog.2ndquadrant.com/postgresql-anti-patterns-read-modify-write-cycles/) Potential workarounds for race conditions include `INSERT` journals (inserting deltas, e.g. `insert... values (1)` for having one extra dollar), doing calculated `UPDATE`s (e.g. `update... set value = value + 1` for bumping up balance by 1), row locking with `SELECT... FOR UPDATE` (which waits if the row is already being read in another transaction), `BEGIN ISOLATION LEVEL SERIALIZABLE` (which aborts if another transaction is already updating the same row), or manage your own `version` column that limits what your `UPDATE` queries match (manually not recommended).
  [`LIKE '%s'`](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_like.asp) means "ending with s". It is not a string substitution marker. To find in any position, use `LIKE '%s%'`. To find starting with something, use `LIKE 's%'`.
- `ORDER BY 1, 2` would order by column 1, then column 2.
- [`-Infinity`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19686635/earliest-timestamp-supported-in-postgresql) is a valid timestamp.
- You can find your config files by just running [`SHOW config_file;`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/3603162/1558430)
- Selecting `->2` gives you the second (not "2th") item in a json list. Selecting [`->'2'`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/static/functions-json.html) gives you the value of a json object's `2` key.
- There is no good way to [monitor your indexing progress](https://dba.stackexchange.com/questions/11329/monitoring-progress-of-index-construction-in-postgresql). The closest you have is a giant query [here](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/161992/41651).
- [`timestamp without time zone AT TIME ZONE zone`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/static/functions-datetime.html#FUNCTIONS-DATETIME-ZONECONVERT) obviously gives you a timestamp _with_ time zone. `timestamp with time zone AT TIME ZONE zone` obviously gives you a timestamp _without_ time zone. Doing `at timezone utc at timezone utc at timezone utc...` also [switches between UTC and not UTC](https://twitter.com/garybernhardt/status/1011388486190968832), depending on how many times you repeat it. [By design.](https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/CAKFQuwYeHxefXOWmF_fXOM%3DMfR%3DQOz%3DUas-HNz5_fA%3DR-koUfw%40mail.gmail.com) Obviously.
- Apart from [preserving key order](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/static/datatype-json.html), there is [no real advantage to storing JSON as `JSON`](https://www.sisense.com/blog/postgres-vs-mongodb-for-storing-json-data/) rather than `JSONB`. Other `JSON` perks include: preserving whitespace. [Possibly faster writes](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.10/ref/contrib/postgres/fields/#django.contrib.postgres.fields.JSONField).
- See what queries are running: `SELECT pid, now() - xact_start AS running_time, usename, substr(query, 0, 120) as query_str FROM pg_stat_activity WHERE query <> 'DISCARD ALL' ORDER BY running_time DESC, datname, query_start, client_addr;`
- [Kill connections by pid](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5109190/1558430): `SELECT pg_terminate_backend(pid) FROM pg_stat_activity;`
- [Selecting the nth row](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16777/1558430) with a non-standard query: `LIMIT y OFFSET n`
- Did you know you can [inherit table schemas](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/ddl-inherit.html)?
- [The auto-incrementing `SERIAL` type only goes up to 2 billion ish.](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/datatype-numeric.html)
- Index creation is locking, not `CONCURRENTLY` by default, because [concurrent indexes need more work](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/sql-createindex.html#SQL-CREATEINDEX-CONCURRENTLY), are significantly slower, and are much more prone to error arising from transactions. Regular index builds can take place inside a transaction, but concurrent ones cannot.
- There are three kinds of "views": [temporary views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/sql-createview.html), [materialized views](http://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-materialized-views/), and ["new tables"](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.1/sql-createtableas.html). [Materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/sql-creatematerializedview.html) saves the data at the time the query is run, and calling `REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW` locks the entire table. Use `CONCURRENTLY`. In the case of `CREATE TABLE ... AS SELECT ...`, the data is not changed after that initial population.

## Performance

- When in doubt: use `EXPLAIN ANALYZE (your query here);` to help you out. If it doesn't work: [look at the full list of things to do](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/SlowQueryQuestions).
- [Tool for EXPLAIN ANALYZE](https://tatiyants.com/pev/): first prefix your query with `EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, COSTS, VERBOSE, BUFFERS, FORMAT JSON)`, and then run `psql -h host db usuer -A -f some_query.sql`.
- `EXPLAIN` returns whatever the engine _thinks_ about a query. `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` actually runs the query, which requires data in actual scale.
- Selecting an indexed column, but while using a function-wrapped parameter (e.g. `WHERE SOMETHING(ROW) == 1`) disables the index.
- [There are function-based indices](http://use-the-index-luke.com/sql/where-clause/functions) but it is discouraged for their own performance reasons.
- Multi-column indices are position-dependent; `CREATE INDEX tbl_idx ON tbl (a, b)` is different from `CREATE INDEX tbl_idx ON tbl (b, a)`, where selecting by `b` requires the second index.
- Continuing from the point above, if the first column in a multi-column index (^ i.e. `a`) is selected as a range, the subsequent indices (i.e. `b`) are useless in the same query.
  **Make sure the first column in a multi-column index is selected exactly.**
- Getting the create table SQL for a table: [see guide](http://stackoverflow.com/a/16154183/1558430)
- [`SELECT COUNT(*) FROM tbl` is slow](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Slow_Counting); use only with indexed `WHERE` queries instead.
- `SELECT field1, field2, field3, ...`, even if the list of fields includes all fields in the table, is [more likely to be faster than `SELECT *`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/65532/1558430), being more likely to use the index.
- [Creating a partial index on a boolean field](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/42972726/postgres-sql-create-index-for-boolean-column) is useful if only a few of the records have either true or false.
- ["An index computed on `upper(col)` would allow the clause `WHERE upper(col) = 'JIM'` to use an index."](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/sql-createindex.html)
- Postgres transparently breaks up large field values into multiple rows for performance reasons. They call this ["TOAST"](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.3/static/storage-toast.html).
- You can query two like tables at the same time using `UNION`: `select (same columns) from table1 UNION select (same columns) from table2`. If you can handle duplicate rows, use [`UNION ALL`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49925/what-is-the-difference-between-union-and-union-all), which is faster (if bandwidth is free).
- **Attempting to [remove nullable or add `NOT NULL` to a field during a zero downtime deployment](https://gist.github.com/majackson/493c3d6d4476914ca9da63f84247407b#notes-on-adding-not-null-columns-in-very-large-tables) will cost a lot of time.**
- `VACUUM ANALYZE VERBOSE;` is almost free to run. Run it every so often (it vacuums all tables). There is also autovacuum that automates the automation away from you.
- SSDs and HDDs have different `random_page_cost` (default 4) and `seq_page_cost` values (default 1). For SSDs, `random_page_cost` may well be set to 1, which often affects how the query planner decides how to make a query.
- An ordered index (one where you specify `field_name DESC`) [hardly matters](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/39599) except if you perform range queries over multiple columns.
- Non-material views are [as fast as the query you put inside it](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/151220).

## Troubleshooting

### Corrupted index

This is what a corrupted index looks like:

```
db=> select * from assets_tile where id=43;
 id | ...
----+-----
 43 | ...
(1 row)
db=> reindex table assets_tile;
ERROR:  could not create unique index "assets_tile_pkey"
DETAIL:  Key (id)=(43) is duplicated.
```

### New databases don't have extensions installed

Postgres has 'templates', so running `psql -d template1 -c 'CREATE EXTENSION...'` adds the CREATE EXTENSION line to the list of queries to run when creating a database.

### Permission denied (while reading an `.sql`)

`sudo -u someone psql -f filename` reads the file as someone instead of you. If that someone cannot access the file but you can, pipe the file in as yourself:

`sudo -u someone psql < filename`

### My DB is blowing up

[Check your disk space usage](https://wiki-bsse.ethz.ch/display/ITDOC/Check+size+of+tables+and+objects+in+PostgreSQL+database) with

    SELECT
        pg_database.datname,
        pg_size_pretty(pg_database_size(pg_database.datname)) AS size
        FROM pg_database;

### `No operator matches the given name and argument type(s). You might need to add explicit type casts.`

Do a cast then:

    SELECT
        *
        FROM tblPoop
        WHERE tblPoop.volume::varchar LIKE '9001%';

# MongoDB

> "MongoDB is the core piece of architectural rot in every single teetering and broken data platform I've worked with."

MongoDB is actually NoSQL, so it shouldn't be in this file.

- Install: `sudo apt-get install mongodb`
- [To have MongoDB return all records](https://engineering.meteor.com/mongodb-queries-dont-always-return-all-matching-documents-654b6594a827#.emoh9pv03), you must either:
  - have an index on a field, and search for exactly that field, or
  - query with all keys when you build a multi-field index, or
  - never update anything. MongoDB misses documents if you update some while you read the same table (if they can be so called).

# SQLite3

- Open database: `attach "some_file_name.db" as db;`
- Show tables: `.tables`

Commit message:

lobsters agree with the way I treat them (not buying them).

sql.md, after:

# Any SQL

- `TRUNCATE some table` differs from `DELETE * FROM some table` in that the `TRUNCATE` statement does not leave behind transaction logs, and thus cannot be rolled back. (Here's a trivia you will never use again)
- SQL is more than 40 years old and is still used today, not because it's great, but because [it just works, 90% of the time](http://blog.sqlizer.io/posts/sql-43/), makes [RDBMS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database_management_system) and SQL solved problems in computing.
- You don't need to select any database to `SELECT 1;`. This is a poor man's way of checking if the database connection is working.
- "Technically, PRIMARY KEY is merely a combination of UNIQUE and NOT NULL".
- Turns out inverting values is pretty easy, even without intermediate values. `UPDATE table SET col = (CASE WHEN col = 0 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END);`
- `SELECT (SELECT ...) as resultColumnName;` creates a [temp table](https://leetcode.com/problems/second-highest-salary/), which guarantees the select to return a row of `null` instead of no rows.
- You can't [have `WHERE` clauses in a `GROUP BY` query](https://leetcode.com/problems/duplicate-emails/), but you _can_ turn that into a temp table and have a `WHERE` clause filter on that. Note: **temp tables must have an alias**, i.e. `SELECT (SELECT ...) as alias`.
- `%` is a thing, so selecting odd-numbered IDs is really `WHERE id % 2 = 1` or something like that.
- If a foreign key field is [unique and nullable at the same time](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7573590/can-a-foreign-key-be-null-and-or-duplicate), it can contain at most one `NULL`. If you really want to avoid that null, and can afford having an M2M relationship rather than an O2M relationship, you can [use an intersection table](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/335284/disadvantages-of-using-a-nullable-foreign-key-instead-of-creating-an-intersectio), where an intermediary table links up two other tables.
- [Sharding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shard_%28database_architecture%29) is putting different rows in the "same" table in different database nodes. Horizontal [partitioning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partition_%28database%29) puts different rows in different tables in the same database.
- If you want to `UPDATE` something with values from another tables, those tables need to be declared [using `FROM tablename` after the `SET` statement](http://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-update-join/).
- `<> NUL`, `!= NULL`, ... is actually `IS NOT NULL`.

# MySQL

- To install MySQL server, client, and python adapters: `sudo apt-get install mysql-common mysql-client-4.4 libmysqlclent-dev mysql-server-5.5`
- To start/stop/restart MySQL server: `(/etc/init.d/mysql OR /etc/init.d/mysqld) start/srestart`
- [Tables are stored in `/var/lib/mysql`](http://forums.mysql.com/read.php?10,239450,239465#msg-239465), and, if you are using InnoDB, the file is actually called `ibdata`.

- Create a database: [`CREATE DATABASE ebdb;`](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/create-database.html)
  (after which you can run `python manage.py syncdb` if that happens to be your thing)
- Select a database: `USE ebdb;` (which isn't `SELECT ebdb`, for some reason)
- Delete a database: [`DROP DATABASE ebdb;`](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/drop-database.html)
- Show list of tables: `SHOW TABLES;`

- Create an index: **TODO**

- Show tables by schema: `SELECT table_name, engine FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES WHERE TABLE_SCHEMA = '(dbname)';`
- Show table columns: `SHOW COLUMNS FROM table_name;`
- Show table info: `DESCRIBE table_name;`
- Change table engine: [`ALTER TABLE table_name ENGINE=InnoDB;`](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/converting-tables-to-innodb.html)
- Show table engines (and other info): `SHOW TABLE STATUS;`
- Show the SQL needed to create an existing table: [`SHOW CREATE TABLE table_name;`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/5615783/1558430)
- Show last `InnoDB` foreign key error: [`SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS;`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/179501/1558430)
- `SET unique_checks=0;` and `SET foreign_key_checks = 0;` does not help you drop a foreign key constraint.

* Create a user: `CREATE USER 'ebroot'@'localhost' [IDENTIFIED BY 'some_pass'];` (different from `CREATE USER 'ebroot';` and `CREATE USER 'ebroot'@'*';`)
* Create a user using a pre-hashed password: `CREATE USER 'ebroot'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY PASSWORD 'abcdef123456';`
* Give a user privileges: `GRANT ALL ON ebdb.* TO 'ebroot'@'localhost';`

* MySQL [does not](http://stackoverflow.com/a/10474104/1558430) support transactional schema alters at any time.
* Amazon [does not](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/message.jspa?messageID=153017#) allow SSH into RDS instances.
* [Why is MySQL's default collation latin1_swedish_ci?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6769901/why-is-mysqls-default-collation-latin1-swedish-ci)
* [No `FULL (OUTER) JOIN` in MySQL?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4796872/how-to-do-a-full-outer-join-in-mysql#4796911) WTF? (`LEFT JOIN` works as expected. )

# PostgreSQL

- Get client version: `psql --version`
- [Get server version](https://stackoverflow.com/a/13733884/1558430): `pg_config --version`, or `SELECT version();`
- Logging into `psql`: `psql dbname username`
- Logging into `psql` to a specific DB: `psql -h somedb.com dbname username`
- [`~/.pgpass`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16791494/1558430) is activated only if you also specify the username and database name.
- Backup a database: [`pg_dumpall > outfile`](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/backup-dump.html#BACKUP-DUMP-ALL) OR `pg_dump specific_db > outfile`
- [Transfer/Migrate a database to another postgres version](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.0/static/migration.html): `pg_dumpall -p 5432 | psql -d postgres -p 6543` (old port to new port)
- Compress a backup: `pg_dump dbname | gzip > outfile.gz`
- Restore a backup: `psql -f outfile postgres` (the keyword `postgres` here is necessary only if you load into a [large cluster](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/backup-dump.html#BACKUP-DUMP-ALL))
- Restore a compressed backup: `gunzip -c outfile.gz | psql dbname`
- Delete a database: (`sudo su - owner_unix_user`), then run `dropdb dbname -Uowner_unix_user -W`. Alternatively, in psql, switch to a database (`\c postgres;`), then `DROP DATABASE dbname;` to delete.
- [Postgres does not take performance hits from string lengths.](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.2/static/datatype-character.html) Putting it in reverse, it also means it cannot be sped up by shortening strings.
- [`varying` string type has no length limit](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2904991/postgresql-character-varying-length-limit)
- `\c`: show the current user and database. `\c dbname` also switches to that database.
- `\d`: list tables (and indexes!)
- [`\d+ tablename`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/109334/1558430): describe the table.
- `\l`: list databases.
- Create an index: `create index concurrently if not exists index_name on table_name (ordered_fields);`
- Drop an index: `drop index concurrently if exists index_name;`
- Rename an index: `alter index old_index_name rename to new_index_name;`
- Monitoring psql: `sudo tail -n 50 -f /var/log/postgresql/postgresql-9.1-main.log`
- Setting monitoring flags: [`log_min_duration_statement = 0`, and `log_statement = all`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/12670828/1558430)
- Running a SQL file: [`psql -U username -d myDataBase -a -f myInsertFile`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/12085561/1558430)
- Re-index a table: `REINDEX TABLE tablename;` (doesn't work if the index is broken, which is _retarded_
  `REINDEX TABLE tablename force;` doesn't work.
- [Read the docs](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Things_to_find_out_about_when_moving_from_MySQL_to_PostgreSQL). Postgres strings must be enclosed with single quotes. Double quotes only work for system identifiers.
- You can choose the type of index to build. The default is B tree.
- According to [this pgcon video](https://www.pgcon.org/2016/schedule/events/934.en.html), GIN indices are good for full text search, and GiST indices are good for full text search, and ranges in general (not just geospatial stuff).
- [Want to write a bank app? Don't read-modify-update.](http://blog.2ndquadrant.com/postgresql-anti-patterns-read-modify-write-cycles/) Potential workarounds for race conditions include `INSERT` journals (inserting deltas, e.g. `insert... values (1)` for having one extra dollar), doing calculated `UPDATE`s (e.g. `update... set value = value + 1` for bumping up balance by 1), row locking with `SELECT... FOR UPDATE` (which waits if the row is already being read in another transaction), `BEGIN ISOLATION LEVEL SERIALIZABLE` (which aborts if another transaction is already updating the same row), or manage your own `version` column that limits what your `UPDATE` queries match (manually not recommended).
  [`LIKE '%s'`](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_like.asp) means "ending with s". It is not a string substitution marker. To find in any position, use `LIKE '%s%'`. To find starting with something, use `LIKE 's%'`.
- `ORDER BY 1, 2` would order by column 1, then column 2.
- [`-Infinity`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19686635/earliest-timestamp-supported-in-postgresql) is a valid timestamp.
- You can find your config files by just running [`SHOW config_file;`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/3603162/1558430)
- Selecting `->2` gives you the second (not "2th") item in a json list. Selecting [`->'2'`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/static/functions-json.html) gives you the value of a json object's `2` key.
- There is no good way to [monitor your indexing progress](https://dba.stackexchange.com/questions/11329/monitoring-progress-of-index-construction-in-postgresql). The closest you have is a giant query [here](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/161992/41651).
- [`timestamp without time zone AT TIME ZONE zone`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/static/functions-datetime.html#FUNCTIONS-DATETIME-ZONECONVERT) obviously gives you a timestamp _with_ time zone. `timestamp with time zone AT TIME ZONE zone` obviously gives you a timestamp _without_ time zone. Doing `at timezone utc at timezone utc at timezone utc...` also [switches between UTC and not UTC](https://twitter.com/garybernhardt/status/1011388486190968832), depending on how many times you repeat it. [By design.](https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/CAKFQuwYeHxefXOWmF_fXOM%3DMfR%3DQOz%3DUas-HNz5_fA%3DR-koUfw%40mail.gmail.com) Obviously.
- Apart from [preserving key order](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/static/datatype-json.html), there is [no real advantage to storing JSON as `JSON`](https://www.sisense.com/blog/postgres-vs-mongodb-for-storing-json-data/) rather than `JSONB`. Other `JSON` perks include: preserving whitespace. [Possibly faster writes](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.10/ref/contrib/postgres/fields/#django.contrib.postgres.fields.JSONField).
- See what queries are running: `SELECT pid, now() - xact_start AS running_time, usename, substr(query, 0, 120) as query_str FROM pg_stat_activity WHERE query <> 'DISCARD ALL' ORDER BY running_time DESC, datname, query_start, client_addr;`
- [Kill connections by pid](https://stackoverflow.com/a/5109190/1558430): `SELECT pg_terminate_backend(pid) FROM pg_stat_activity;`
- [Selecting the nth row](https://stackoverflow.com/a/16777/1558430) with a non-standard query: `LIMIT y OFFSET n`
- Did you know you can [inherit table schemas](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/ddl-inherit.html)?
- [The auto-incrementing `SERIAL` type only goes up to 2 billion ish.](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/datatype-numeric.html)
- Index creation is locking, not `CONCURRENTLY` by default, because [concurrent indexes need more work](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/sql-createindex.html#SQL-CREATEINDEX-CONCURRENTLY), are significantly slower, and are much more prone to error arising from transactions. Regular index builds can take place inside a transaction, but concurrent ones cannot.
- There are three kinds of "views": [temporary views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/sql-createview.html), [materialized views](http://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-materialized-views/), and ["new tables"](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.1/sql-createtableas.html). [Materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/sql-creatematerializedview.html) saves the data at the time the query is run, and calling `REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW` locks the entire table. Use `CONCURRENTLY`. In the case of `CREATE TABLE ... AS SELECT ...`, the data is not changed after that initial population.

## Performance

- When in doubt: use `EXPLAIN ANALYZE (your query here);` to help you out. If it doesn't work: [look at the full list of things to do](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/SlowQueryQuestions).
- [Tool for EXPLAIN ANALYZE](https://tatiyants.com/pev/): first prefix your query with `EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, COSTS, VERBOSE, BUFFERS, FORMAT JSON)`, and then run `psql -h host db usuer -A -f some_query.sql`.
- `EXPLAIN` returns whatever the engine _thinks_ about a query. `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` actually runs the query, which requires data in actual scale.
- Selecting an indexed column, but while using a function-wrapped parameter (e.g. `WHERE SOMETHING(ROW) == 1`) disables the index.
- [There are function-based indices](http://use-the-index-luke.com/sql/where-clause/functions) but it is discouraged for their own performance reasons.
- Multi-column indices are position-dependent; `CREATE INDEX tbl_idx ON tbl (a, b)` is different from `CREATE INDEX tbl_idx ON tbl (b, a)`, where selecting by `b` requires the second index.
- Continuing from the point above, if the first column in a multi-column index (^ i.e. `a`) is selected as a range, the subsequent indices (i.e. `b`) are useless in the same query.
  **Make sure the first column in a multi-column index is selected exactly.**
- Getting the create table SQL for a table: [see guide](http://stackoverflow.com/a/16154183/1558430)
- [`SELECT COUNT(*) FROM tbl` is slow](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Slow_Counting); use only with indexed `WHERE` queries instead.
- `SELECT field1, field2, field3, ...`, even if the list of fields includes all fields in the table, is [more likely to be faster than `SELECT *`](http://stackoverflow.com/a/65532/1558430), being more likely to use the index.
- [Creating a partial index on a boolean field](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/42972726/postgres-sql-create-index-for-boolean-column) is useful if only a few of the records have either true or false.
- ["An index computed on `upper(col)` would allow the clause `WHERE upper(col) = 'JIM'` to use an index."](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.1/static/sql-createindex.html)
- Postgres transparently breaks up large field values into multiple rows for performance reasons. They call this ["TOAST"](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.3/static/storage-toast.html).
- You can query two like tables at the same time using `UNION`: `select (same columns) from table1 UNION select (same columns) from table2`. If you can handle duplicate rows, use [`UNION ALL`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49925/what-is-the-difference-between-union-and-union-all), which is faster (if bandwidth is free).
- **Attempting to [remove nullable or add `NOT NULL` to a field during a zero downtime deployment](https://gist.github.com/majackson/493c3d6d4476914ca9da63f84247407b#notes-on-adding-not-null-columns-in-very-large-tables) will cost a lot of time.**
- `VACUUM ANALYZE VERBOSE;` is almost free to run. Run it every so often (it vacuums all tables). There is also autovacuum that automates the automation away from you.
- SSDs and HDDs have different `random_page_cost` (default 4) and `seq_page_cost` values (default 1). For SSDs, `random_page_cost` may well be set to 1, which often affects how the query planner decides how to make a query.
- An ordered index (one where you specify `field_name DESC`) [hardly matters](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/39599) except if you perform range queries over multiple columns.
- Non-material views are [as fast as the query you put inside it](https://dba.stackexchange.com/a/151220).
- Check timing with `\timing`
- Echo with `\echo` (lol)
- Avoid ["cross joins"](https://www.w3resource.com/PostgreSQL/postgresql-cross-join.php) or cartesian product joins, aka `SELECT ... FROM more,than,one,table`, which produces a massive queryset of size `more x than x one x table`. Nevertheless, in some cases, a cross join might reference an index that an inner join does not, ending up being faster.

## Troubleshooting

### Corrupted index

This is what a corrupted index looks like:

```
db=> select * from assets_tile where id=43;
 id | ...
----+-----
 43 | ...
(1 row)
db=> reindex table assets_tile;
ERROR:  could not create unique index "assets_tile_pkey"
DETAIL:  Key (id)=(43) is duplicated.
```

### New databases don't have extensions installed

Postgres has 'templates', so running `psql -d template1 -c 'CREATE EXTENSION...'` adds the CREATE EXTENSION line to the list of queries to run when creating a database.

### Permission denied (while reading an `.sql`)

`sudo -u someone psql -f filename` reads the file as someone instead of you. If that someone cannot access the file but you can, pipe the file in as yourself:

`sudo -u someone psql < filename`

### My DB is blowing up

[Check your disk space usage](https://wiki-bsse.ethz.ch/display/ITDOC/Check+size+of+tables+and+objects+in+PostgreSQL+database) with

    SELECT
        pg_database.datname,
        pg_size_pretty(pg_database_size(pg_database.datname)) AS size
        FROM pg_database;

### `No operator matches the given name and argument type(s). You might need to add explicit type casts.`

Do a cast then:

    SELECT
        *
        FROM tblPoop
        WHERE tblPoop.volume::varchar LIKE '9001%';

# MongoDB

> "MongoDB is the core piece of architectural rot in every single teetering and broken data platform I've worked with."

MongoDB is actually NoSQL, so it shouldn't be in this file.

- Install: `sudo apt-get install mongodb`
- [To have MongoDB return all records](https://engineering.meteor.com/mongodb-queries-dont-always-return-all-matching-documents-654b6594a827#.emoh9pv03), you must either:
  - have an index on a field, and search for exactly that field, or
  - query with all keys when you build a multi-field index, or
  - never update anything. MongoDB misses documents if you update some while you read the same table (if they can be so called).

# SQLite3

- Open database: `attach "some_file_name.db" as db;`
- Show tables: `.tables`
