vexillology.md, before:

- The [Kingdom of Dalmatia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_of_Dalmatia) got the really short end of the stick when [Croatia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Croatia) decided to make [a new flag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Croatia). Apparently the tiny bits of yellow on that flag (try spotting it) was enough to symbolise the Kingdom of Dalmatia.
- [Princple of flag design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pnv5iKB2hl4): keep it simple. A flag should be so simple that even a child can draw it from memory. Use a standard set of colours, red white blue... blablabla and black. **Never use words or lettering of any kind.** Draw your design on a one-inch canvas. If it doesn't fit, it's no good.
- The [flag of Nepal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Nepal) is "the world's only non-quadrilateral national flag".
- A canton is any quarter of a flag. British colonial flags have the union jack at the upper left canton, for example. Not related to Canton the place.
- The EU flag is non-flammable.
- The [American flag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_the_United_States) has a 19:10 ratio.
- The red in the [flag of France](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_France) is #EF4135, and the red in the [flag of Italy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Italy) is #CD212A, a slightly darker shade. The Italians also opted for _a darker shade of white_, #F4F5F0, instead of the usual #FFFFFF.
- Quite a few [state flags](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/2c/69/93/2c69933a9c10f32c9a09a91ad09f61d0.gif) have years on them.
- Texas and Chile have [similar flags](http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kera/files/styles/x_large/public/201702/flagsweb_0.jpg).
- At some point, it got really hard to get "Hong Kong colonial flag" accessories.
- [The Nazi national flag's circle and swastika are slightly off center, whereas the Nazi party's flag has them at the middle.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_German_flags)
- [All country flags in the world have at least one of red, blue, or green.](https://i.redd.it/du6hb9aqy2801.png)
- Germany emphasises that its flag is red, black and [gold, not yellow](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Germany#Color), to symbolise the [Austrian empire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_Empire). The [RAL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAL_colour_standard) (German RAL Institute) therefore named that colour "rapeseed yellow".
- A man named Rem Koolhaas tried to make a [barcode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rem_Koolhaas#European_Flag_proposal) the flag of the EU in 2002.
- One of the six white stars on Australia's flag has five points. The rest of the stars have seven points.
- That flower thing in Quebec's flag is [Fleur-de-lis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fleur-de-lis), some artistic thing symbolising (among other things) the French monarchy.
- [A red flag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_quarter) (as opposed to a white flag) indicates the desire not to capture anyone (i.e. killing them all). There is no flag for desiring not to be captured.
- [The Romanian flag is indistinguishable from Chad's flag](http://www.msn.com/en-au/travel/other/10-of-the-worlds-most-confusing-flags-and-how-to-figure-them-out/ar-BBvIfW5) under the sun. They are slightly different shades of blue, yellow, and (maybe even the same) red.
- Hawaii has the union jack on its state flag [for no reason](https://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-35890670). The UK never colonised Hawaii. They even updated the state flag when the union jack changed. Graham said it was a symbol of friendship.
- [No current flag has only one colour.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_flags_by_number_of_colors) And, as expected, [most flags are red and white](http://www.infocaptor.com/dashboard/color-and-pattern-analysis-on-flags-of-countries-simple-visualization-but-interesting-data), with blue being the third most popular colour, and [red, white, blue, green, yellow, black] covering the vast majority.
- [The number of flags behind a government announcement](http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2015/jun/24/10-flag-announcement-brings-government-flag-count-to-all-time-high?CMP=soc_567) has meaning, apparently.
- [The flag of the red cross](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Red_Cross_and_Red_Crescent_Movement#Emblems_in_use) (which is a red cross) was said to be the reverse of the flag of Switzerland, to dispel the argument from the Ottoman Empire that the flag had Christian roots. There is no proof either way.
- There are two official color palettes for the French flag : "Dark blue" for public & military buildings and "Light Blue" for TV & government appearences/meetings.
- The "confederate flag" is actually the confederate's flag [none of the time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ULBCuHIpNgU&list=PLqs5ohhass_TWuJqc36II6McLxqLcRJfO&index=2). It was a central design in the actual battle flag, but the battle flag was never *just* the stars and cross.
- The [flag of Lethbridge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Lethbridge) has different thicknesses of red lines.
- [1/3 of the world's flags has red in it](https://gramener.com/flags/). The second most popular colour is white. There are more flags with green than there are flags with blue, to my surprise.
- If Indonesia decides to invade Monaco, no one will know which is which.

Commit message:

Boy have I other things in life to take care of first

vexillology.md, after:

- There is an "up" side to the confederate flag: [the star at the middle points up when the flag is pointing up](https://www.reddit.com/r/beholdthemasterrace/comments/oysj59/-/h7v2kew). Other than that, there is virtually no difference between up and down.
- The flag of Bhutan has [a dragon on it](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhutan). Bhutan is a buffer state between China and India.
- The [Kingdom of Dalmatia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_of_Dalmatia) got the really short end of the stick when [Croatia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Croatia) decided to make [a new flag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Croatia). Apparently the tiny bits of yellow on that flag (try spotting it) was enough to symbolise the Kingdom of Dalmatia.
- [Princple of flag design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pnv5iKB2hl4): keep it simple. A flag should be so simple that even a child can draw it from memory. Use a standard set of colours, red white blue... blablabla and black. **Never use words or lettering of any kind.** Draw your design on a one-inch canvas. If it doesn't fit, it's no good.
- The [flag of Nepal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Nepal) is "the world's only non-quadrilateral national flag".
- A canton is any quarter of a flag. British colonial flags have the union jack at the upper left canton, for example. Not related to Canton the place.
- The EU flag is non-flammable.
- The [American flag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_the_United_States) has a 19:10 ratio.
- The red in the [flag of France](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_France) is #EF4135, and the red in the [flag of Italy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Italy) is #CD212A, a slightly darker shade. The Italians also opted for _a darker shade of white_, #F4F5F0, instead of the usual #FFFFFF.
- Quite a few [state flags](https://i.pinimg.com/originals/2c/69/93/2c69933a9c10f32c9a09a91ad09f61d0.gif) have years on them.
- Texas and Chile have [similar flags](http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kera/files/styles/x_large/public/201702/flagsweb_0.jpg).
- At some point, it got really hard to get "Hong Kong colonial flag" accessories.
- [The Nazi national flag's circle and swastika are slightly off center, whereas the Nazi party's flag has them at the middle.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_German_flags)
- [All country flags in the world have at least one of red, blue, or green.](https://i.redd.it/du6hb9aqy2801.png)
- Germany emphasises that its flag is red, black and [gold, not yellow](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Germany#Color), to symbolise the [Austrian empire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_Empire). The [RAL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAL_colour_standard) (German RAL Institute) therefore named that colour "rapeseed yellow".
- A man named Rem Koolhaas tried to make a [barcode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rem_Koolhaas#European_Flag_proposal) the flag of the EU in 2002.
- One of the six white stars on Australia's flag has five points. The rest of the stars have seven points.
- That flower thing in Quebec's flag is [Fleur-de-lis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fleur-de-lis), some artistic thing symbolising (among other things) the French monarchy.
- [A red flag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_quarter) (as opposed to a white flag) indicates the desire not to capture anyone (i.e. killing them all). There is no flag for desiring not to be captured.
- [The Romanian flag is indistinguishable from Chad's flag](http://www.msn.com/en-au/travel/other/10-of-the-worlds-most-confusing-flags-and-how-to-figure-them-out/ar-BBvIfW5) under the sun. They are slightly different shades of blue, yellow, and (maybe even the same) red.
- Hawaii has the union jack on its state flag [for no reason](https://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-35890670). The UK never colonised Hawaii. They even updated the state flag when the union jack changed. Graham said it was a symbol of friendship.
- [No current flag has only one colour.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_flags_by_number_of_colors) And, as expected, [most flags are red and white](http://www.infocaptor.com/dashboard/color-and-pattern-analysis-on-flags-of-countries-simple-visualization-but-interesting-data), with blue being the third most popular colour, and [red, white, blue, green, yellow, black] covering the vast majority.
- [The number of flags behind a government announcement](http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2015/jun/24/10-flag-announcement-brings-government-flag-count-to-all-time-high?CMP=soc_567) has meaning, apparently.
- [The flag of the red cross](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Red_Cross_and_Red_Crescent_Movement#Emblems_in_use) (which is a red cross) was said to be the reverse of the flag of Switzerland, to dispel the argument from the Ottoman Empire that the flag had Christian roots. There is no proof either way.
- There are two official color palettes for the French flag : "Dark blue" for public & military buildings and "Light Blue" for TV & government appearences/meetings.
- The "confederate flag" is actually the confederate's flag [none of the time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ULBCuHIpNgU&list=PLqs5ohhass_TWuJqc36II6McLxqLcRJfO&index=2). It was a central design in the actual battle flag, but the battle flag was never *just* the stars and cross.
- The [flag of Lethbridge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Lethbridge) has different thicknesses of red lines.
- [1/3 of the world's flags has red in it](https://gramener.com/flags/). The second most popular colour is white. There are more flags with green than there are flags with blue, to my surprise.
- If Indonesia decides to invade Monaco, no one will know which is which.
